
---
## Transcript


I think we can start maybe someone else will join us low it later.

  

Welcome, This is the generative artificial intelligence pphics and mutinedia course.

  

I'm professor L and I will be in charge of the course for this.

  

And with me the will go to be too collaboratori Pietro Baci and Davide Calandra Pietro is one of my collaborators and ma research fid generative mes for tax to image for text to image sytsis.

  

And Davide Calandra will focus more on the cations of generative AI within the graphics within the graphics fid.

  

Before we diving to the content, I just wanted to tell a little bit about the organization of the course and the objecves what we will be doing.

  

As you know, this is the first year that we we are giving disse, may kw, may you didn't now.

  

But this is the first year.

  

So we will try to run everything as smoth as possible, but maybe there will be a litt it. Growing pain during the course.

  

The organization of the course is 60 ho of in class lessons and 20 hours of lab and most we anticipate most of the s- study with also beted to be project work or praticolativities.

  

Wit the class a speciallists, we don't really have the most fortte slot in the week.

  

I will try also to do sometractivetivities starrting from today. We will not just review the material, but you will also do some some selfassessment and group activities in order to understand it better the content the content we're going to talk about today.

  

Some of the content will be more teoretical oriented in the first partle the course.

  

The idea is to grasse of the basics of the main generative models that have been propose specially in ima generation.

  

The resto of the course will be more application oriented.

  

So we will try to look a lipit of a both site of the equations, a little bit of So my goal is that he will not only be a good user of the metohodes, but you will also understand.

  

How me work and why is me work in way they do?

  

The rest of the course will be more application oriented and we will not only look at applications, but also look at how these models are used within the indust in generale.

  

So This is a course has been designe. With the graphics in multimedia, but I think it's open and for all silencing in computer engineering.

  

So regardless of your background .

  

Alough I anticipated most of you come from graphics in multimi.

  

I see some hands, some hands sking.

  

In the lab we will focus like in the first las we will focus on to problems because we will like to underand the basi princip and we will like to be able to code these models ourselves.

  

Then we will switch to exis open source platforms some of which are going to be more code oriented o actually no code platforms and to pre train los. Because the amante of reor that needed to trainhis model super per forma state of the art is not within the grasp of university university level course.

  

So is a possible to train those models from scratch.

  

Exel for toi problems.

  

So we decide to I was to focus on a couple of to problems, toe problems in or to the basics and I move on to state of the ar state of the art models wre won't able to extensi train models, but you will be mos able to find tune them or integrateour applications.

  

And I thin this is going to be the best of bw be if we call everything from scratching one be able to see reali state of the art that is going to be maybe not so reard, but if we do everyt in a no cold way, maybe won't be as able to understand the under princip.

  

In terms of what they expect you to learn, will not goot through this lide in a single. Will not go go to readslide, but I will like to show you what I hope that you will be able to learn at the end of this course.

  

The first part of the course will be dedicated to understanding generative models.

  

There idea be generative model to Treat observed data, we will talk about multimensional data like images and vide and text and and odio. Ample from a probability distribution. Certaincomes certain data is going to be more and just and morequly over is going to be less in generate less frequently.

  

And our goal is to learn some form of parametrica approximation of the distribution.

  

So that we can generate new data that was priy seen by the modern.

  

I very, very level most of generative models can be seen as minimizing some sort of distance between the distribution of the data e the distribuzione, the parametric distribution that is a neural network. Che è comp by the neural network.

  

But then we see che are many man families of model depend on we decide to creato model and to approssimate distance between these distributions.

  

What is the challenge?

  

The challenge is that possible images, if you look for camample of images, possible images that we can generate given an image of Are you be image with a retly high resution is enorm.

  

And most of these combination of pixel are not going to be vlid images anyway. Ally of data fro which we have to which we able to len w Large by all maybeons or even billions of images is still less than the amante of possible amante possible data that we could generate.

  

And leads w problem that is uneter And so we need to somew discover the under instructure of the data.

  

And questo can be aeved us a va different model.

  

If you have taken the course machine learning for visione e multimedia, you are proly already familiar generative avversarial networks.

  

You have probably or of auto aggressive models or transformers for text generation.

  

We al look at advertipe of model like variation and coders, normalizing flows and diffusion models.

  

We will not cover energy base models, but I think that is to be engh.

  

So we will see five different families andderstand how they work when one family is more appropri, when ever family is less appropri.

  

And the end of the first part of the course, we will have for each of of block ear understanding of wre the pros, w are the and what is the main principhin that moing.

  

We will also have a look at rain force lening.in forning is the technic in which an agent can learn by interactive win an environment.

  

It is a type of technique that has been using robotics, so you are all familiare for example win with Boston Dynamics and the type of movement they can genera We are going to look at reinforce nel learning from the stand point of generative models.

  

So we look at the of rainforce lening in text syts.

  

Forle, howhat uses rainforce learning and wh And we win for leing from the point of view of computer animation and the generation of virtual assets in particolarer how rainforce lening can bete with unity to generate movements in automatic fashion and to generate for example long play characters.

  

And are going to be memore of tetical pillars that we will will tack.

  

Then we will move on to applications, H can see a screenshot of KY, which has be the de factor standard for combining multi state of the art models using some sort of no colde.

  

If your familiar with rapid miner, it has a simir flow, e boxes e a model and you can connect different model in to per different operations. Going to have look t in the second parte course.

  

So this is going to be the content and what we will learn.

  

I hope the contat will build raver or organially on what youready know from machine learning.

  

But we will do a little bit of recap from the previe from the previous courses in or to ma for that everyone is up to speed on the the information that you need in order to carry out the project and they course ativities.

  

The exM is base on the group project plus oral examination.

  

So there's going to be a b assessment.

  

The group project will be on self little problem.

  

So we ask group of tour free students to work con a problem that they have selected. Expect to produce short report plus code reces, si to what you aly have done for ma lening for visione e multimedia if you have already tak course.

  

There is going to be a deadline for you provide proposito. Is the first, so we can provide wi examp from aero, but we will provide wi Some hands out with ideas then if you don't have any.

  

The idea is to work something that is interest to you.

  

So you can focus on whatever the grops more interesting.

  

The final submission will be se days before yM, which will be on the day of the a schedule by the university.

  

The evaltion of the group project is is 250 plus to extra point for project that are particolar originally propose original extensions or do something particolar more elettle bit more challenging or include experiment that are more carefully excted.

  

There will be ora presentation in which all the au will have to partecipate in person, since there is there is no preten examination, I think we will do the oral presentations in person.

  

Follow by Q&A and by individual an individual.

  

The individual focus focus on the teori, so the will be one question for each.

  

We will also eval the equal contribution of all wat to the project work during oral examination.

  

One aspect is going to be computational resources because For the labs we can focus on relati sma to problems, so we expec use Google. For the project.

  

We are looking in crown labs which is a computational platform, sy politecnico.

  

This is going to be provide during the labs and during specifi part the course.

  

So we will provid with the detail to ward the deadline of the project proposal.

  

But the bottom line is that even though You can subet the project you can do the final assessment whenever you like, so can do the final presentation in any exssion.

  

We made not beble to provide the reurces by a Chrome les For the entire Academire.

  

I think that the best the best way to do the project is to try and follow course.

  

Because we try to se as reorse as can For the duration of cour, during the course and the week anticipate going to be for the project work.

  

But the resto of the for the remin partet of I it's going to be a first and I not tre how many how many reurces we would be able to provive through crow lepss.

  

That said, if you have over your resorse that you want to use that's also fine But we anticipate that for the project the standard free Google going to be sufficiente.

  

So we are ing to tack to sere rece in or for you to able to to carry out the project witn the course.

  

Besides the project che are al going to be home works.

  

You can get up toe points one point per home work.

  

The home work will be handled via a moodle, all the submissions will be handled via a moodle.

  

They are going to be free home works, the first one is on guns and we start actually next week.

  

The second one is on fusion mods and the one will be on agency.

  

Theworks will be publihed on the day of the lab, There will beo laps dedicated to that hwork. You can work on the home work during the lab.

  

And deadline tomate is going to be at the end of the second week of lab on t.

  

So you can also work can also work on the lab during your time.

  

The homeworks will require you to implement a modoel not not from scratch by to complete ade. You will see with my teach the our teach assistant how to do it in the lab, starting from next week, so we will do labs every week.

  

So even Even if were just start in today, since most of you alrey have a fo should have alre foundation in Pch, we a to start we pratica work right.

  

I will try to give you very very clear.

  

We will focus during the classes on reduce number of of models, so we will not foc on very large number of applications and models, but weill focus on a careful selection of model so that you can use also the lesson as a guide on wou during.

  

The home work is a home work, so exM, so you're free to collaborate withach other.

  

You're also free to use I would prefer you not to use learge language model to complete home works, but I can notse forse you not to use them.

  

But you very welcome to collaborate with Fellow students to show, discuss your solutions, but you must ech student must sut original work.

  

So it's possible to su the same notebook or the same report part of the of the work.

  

The whoward will contain will as you to suet your solution and also to ans aw questions base on the out of individual notebook.

  

So we expect the output of the notebook to be the report to be different even if you cald must be in will be very sir, but we expect the content of very to be different. Home works are notendatori, but if you follow long, if you come to the labs, you should be able to submithm in time, so basy Why not?

  

My suggestion would be to at let first to try and to them.

  

Okay, I think I covered all the traditional organizational Organization Stuff.

  

One extra think the for to include in this is going to be study material.

  

We will upload study material.

  

Most of the study materiale will be base on slide and hand out that I will maybe short hand out that I will give you to read between one liston and the over.

  

And I will also give you are for some part of the of the course that are also tex books that I wil can suggest are free to download.

  

Tex books are more extensive both from the application, but also more fy heavy, but I will guide you through a chapters that are actually covered by the text.

  

By by our course.

  

If you want to use them, if you prefer to haveve Something that feels more organic to reader raver than to take not, that not that's also fine.

  

But I don't have reference texbook because most of most of the things we tech not ever to, soy are not necessass Teks.

  

Or we have drone from different corses and different curriculum in order peace together the main elements we think are relevant for someone specializzing in graphics in multimedia.

  

So we cover maybe less about text generation, we cover for example, we will cover for example graphics generation, whi is not covered by standard cors on generative that more matemal heavy, then but will notly provide you with with the same outlook con application.

  

The content is actually makes a match of different of different corses that you can find online because this is what we fght was ideal for your curriculum. Of course, the end of course, you will tell me. Opinion.

  

A questions things that are not clear?

  

Individually issched.

  

The homews are individual.

  

So you can discuss the home work with with other students.

  

So you we will notan exm, so there's no of coping from your neighbor.

  

But the s mission is individual, so we expete you at the end to have your own not book, which are going to somemate.

  

They wome work is also going to include a few questions.

  

So the questions will be based on the output of your individual notebook.

  

I think even if I think the's structure will allow everyone to understand something more.

  

Even if it eventually, you may you and up just runing the book that's fine.

  

We w provide solution for the w works, after.

  

So we will not accept late missions because i mission then we would have to not provide everyone with the solution to be work.

  

So that it think.

  

Okay.

  

Ok, from your answers, I think it is pretty much Clear to everybody that while so call discriminative models so as the classifire takes us input in image and gives us output a class.

  

E generative model will start from class poten or even from an e vector if we don't have if we have an un conditional generation and give us a output the in the case of images, the feature are going to be RGB piles.

  

In conditional probability e discriminative model will produce the probability of heving label Y after scene, image ex, wy the generative model will give us the probability of scene, image ex Given la Y and since our generative model to generate all possible images domin, we will have as input some form of random Genery speak in this is also something that you mi remember from previous corses, many most generative models for high dimensional date associas images on the so manif ises.

  

The medifulp state that the day that is that we see in a very high dimensional space actually lies in a lower dimensional space that form the structure in this case, you can see the sort of a shet witn the high dimensional space.

  

Oside of manif data whi è natural data that we not expect to be v or probable or plausible for the particolare, temple these noise images would be outside of a mindful.

  

And the ipotesi that the are natural data is much more th the natural data, so the intrinse la mon of manifold is much dimension of the high dimensional space.

  

And the goal of model is to find lation that has to properties.perty is that it concentrate only on natural images or natural data.

  

So it generate data that is realistic.

  

And under man ipotesies we also want to capture s sort of law dimensional space that has some sort of cap s of semantic similarity.

  

What that me that images arese in this dimensional space and by have a distan simi human and will be perve similar by the viewer in the case of images or depend on which senses a trigger by t specifi data. Property that the manf has a small intrinse dimensionality and the input space means that the data can bed by a compactor.

  

But can be very complicated funtions of the original input space.

  

So we need parte model in the case of of guns that will be generator that Maps the ludional space in the original input space, are images.

  

And so far, I think we all agree fro from your answers that the generative models tackle problem problem can be tackled in many many way.

  

Today we will see generative avversarial networks and generative avversari networks sol particolar problem a minima minimax between due objects are the generator and the discriminator.

  

The generator sta from a la and random virable, ts is the dimensional space la space and back to the input space in genera a fake image.

  

And la discriminator will try to discriminate real image from a fake image.

  

We can build this generative networks in many ways. We will work images, so we will use convolutional generativi avversarial networks.

  

Inch discrimination discriminator is a convolutional network and convolutional network are approxition of human perception specia networks ha to be perceptual taxes for the for the human perception.

  

And the generator is a sort of convolution Iron network up. In of it backwards the la dimensional output which the input of the generator and ma back to the input space us sort of And we will come back to the architecture of this generation of generator later.

  

So I thinks is pretty much wre everybody was I think with the repart may from especially if youve ready follow machine le for vision e multimedia.

  

This is very very very close material to what you havey, so the sld be any.vel.

  

The next la will be on how to train again, so you will will actually implement to train differenles of generative avversari networks.

  

La first one will be a pane unconditional generator.

  

How do we train the gun?

  

As I said the generation problem is a minimax game. Che are to compon one maximis it reward.

  

Incular the discriminator maximies very ward.

  

Where is essentially be to correc, images, real images from a training set from a fake imag produce by the generator.

  

When we train the discriminator, we bas the discriminator loss, which maximum of the reward we p the generator frozen. During the train, we have steps in one step we train the discriminator in the step we train generator.

  

When we the generator, we do opp the generator try to minimize reward and ofse i stay be's discriminator should be frozen overise we shouldn't be able to train.

  

So let me just fik mistake.

  

We are quick.

  

When we train the generator, the discriminator will will be frozen.

  

Now have a look at thel formulation because is what you going to need to to write the train loop.

  

We will use a set to resen rendeum variable, which is the input to the generator.

  

The generator and the discriminator are toural network, quindi and the have set which will us inta.

  

Till wills waits of the generator.

  

Till represent the waits of the discriminator.

  

The output of the discriminatori is biny, quindi la discriminatori is biny classificare.

  

Very image is called we will call it exs and we will sit from it samples and it sle from the distribution of a real data which will call data.

  

And the out of generator X is sle from the distribution of the fake images P.

  

P data is fixed, i depend on the train set.

  

PG is approted by.

  

È indirect approximated by our generator during training.

  

After train, we la discriminator, we keep the generator and can different by us different. Since the approximation be simi to distribuzione, most in train set a to be genera.

  

And the in the train sy to be generated.

  

V space can be interprete. Interpolation in the la space me moving from one vector to .

  

Ually, the la space will be between 60 and the 1,000 variable depend the problem.

  

So we can take each of the acceis and interpo usally in the space we can find directions directions in which the from one particolarle sample to o in one direc the mik to direction is going to with of sample and for esempioample in this case, which is a tridimensional gun for a point cloud the shape of the the chr will murph, the handle will disappear and the chair will be come more nerow. Interplation in the la space to interplating the la space, we can start from two points that are associated to toal images and then we can move in between.

  

And the out we opta a gener more realistic th if we interplate in the pixel space. Most of the outputs in between are not going to be realistic.

  

We will not go much de into the concept of the structure of a lat spacessor in the material by professor bottino in the course of machine learning for visione e multimediare is a lot more material how to work with lat space in or to modire to control the output of degented output.

  

For the sake of time we will skip it to concentrate on the last formulation today.

  

I just want to remind is that there is no garant that a partilar variable Index of the lettle space will store a variable that has a semantictic meaning.

  

So it is possible that as we see here in these example of chare that we interplate in the litt space we change one aspct for example the hands, but we also change in o exct of like the with of the chair.

  

And if we do the same for the faces when we interplate in the lett space, ideally we would like to change only one. Aspect of a face.

  

Maybe we will like to change only the hairstyle or the presence of glasses or the presence of mile but of the gun will get all those aspet mixed up and the concept is cald entanglement of different features that to a human would be ould be orgraonal conce, but for the network actually hiy correlated and confused.

  

This is a very interesting topic that we don't have time to go into, but was for those of you will take the course i will be covered in the material by Professor Bottino.

  

My goal today is to actually have a much de look at how we write the loss the gun because that is going to help you move from the matema formation to the aal Python code that is needed to train the network.

  

The reward, so we said already that the gun is a mean ma game.

  

Where the discriminator is maximizing, the reward and the generator is minimi the discriminator reard. Very pecune lening perché il machine learning us we are minimi a single loss. Is to have to in loss that have to be optimized concorly and in fact one of the maons guns are not so popoular animal today is that the are very hard to train because the are very instable do to competition between the discriminator e generator.

  

In the very word of the discriminator is a bin the discriminator is a biny classifi So the discriminator the value of the discriminator is be to real data as real and be able to classify fake data as fake.

  

So the the term inside the expetation is actually the crop.

  

The reward is un expected value of the crop, me over 2 distribuzione.

  

For the real data we wil the exprete value of the datale from the real distribution.

  

This is .

  

And for the fake data we will sample the data from the la space.

  

We will samplead from la space and and genera the take the outp of the generator to from from a fake data.

  

So the expected value is then essentially can be approssimate by computing the avverage of val on the mini. On the sle minihen the expeted val will become in avge.

  

It can be the that the game has un equilibrium naturalmente un certain conditions il will converse in equilibum And the equilibrium the distribution of the generate data will be equal to the distribution of the real data and very and the output of the discriminator will be5 for all input.

  

Wh zero5 because the output of discriminator zero the point isfi fake if the point is classified as real 0,5 if the discriminator è un to te if the data is real or fake.

  

So the equilibrium the discriminatori is to tell The real data from the sa data a parte.

  

And the data will become highly realistic because they under approximation will be will be approximated as much as possible given the capacity of the generator.

  

So in practice what we have to do is imple training loop in w fix the aternativep the discriminator fix and we train generator or we keep the generator fix and we train the discriminator.

  

And the discriminator the generator will have e loro individual losses.

  

Quindi, for the discriminator, funtion will be very.

  

And funzione we to be maxi.

  

So we need to perform gen assent on this function or minimize the minus JD. Usually in in like most machine lening lening frameworks, for the ottimizer è un minimi, not maximize. Can conver the maximization process maximization problem in problem by simply Putin in minus sign in fron fron veloce So wex if we fix the generator, we essenziay removing this minim here. And the problem becom the maximum of of function.

  

Thi is encorage to go to one when the input is real data.

  

And the compont is calcolated only onver real data.

  

The second componente is calcolated only on the fake data and is going to be encoge to go zero when the input is fake data If we compare this formulation with the formulation of the b crossy for for a single match.

  

We can see that compon are very simir.

  

The first part is bin crop wh is So when the is real and the second part of the of the of the word is actually the second compont of the binary crotropy when is to zero?

  

So when the fake the imput is fake?

  

The only difference is the minus.

  

So we don't have a minus This is the same a bintropi, but we have to put the minus sign in front of because we a maximizing in of mini.

  

Bu for the discriminator velo essenti as a standard binary When we instead go to train in the generator, the generator need to train to consider this part of the world. Be the first parte of dopend on the on the generator depend on the real data.

  

So the first of the melevant for the discriminator.

  

The generator will have to minimize the reard So we w perforcent on questa function and the goal of è to per discriminazione.

  

Ain, if we look formulation, when we fix the discriminator, essenti rev the max from questa equa perché è fix there's no mamition.

  

We keep only the And we opta term which is very simir to the cross piloin for the casch why to zero.

  

But since this is minimi che we can cantually keep the the original sign of the of the binary cro.

  

So this was the original formulation that was publid in 14 by goodfellow. Whin't work.

  

I i work sono very very small data set, but in practice has a number of isses and to train.

  

So over the over the sever alternative formulations were considerate.

  

If considerati before diving into the alternative formulazioni a few pointers. All, w we do alternative training and which we first for discriminator and fi and fix generator, we to match per due model capaci.

  

If you look at the original convolutional gun paper V2 architec are relativi similarns of number parameters and turns of that.

  

If the discriminatori is to good or training collap.

  

The are certa sugg training the discriminator for a certa number steps and then training the generator.

  

But is us fix that does a lot The o rule of time is that the accura of the discriminator sh say around 50% in practice It's ey's also possible to train with0%.

  

The improve will be slower but very to exatly 50% se in training for discriminator specialmente un beginning of training.

  

If you have any questions or if I going to fast that are things that you don't understand, I'mically I'm also taking ispiration for what I saw from your answer. W to speed up to go faster.

  

Before moving on in the alternative formulazioni, I w to remin why questa formulation is not What is the main issues with the original game formulation.

  

And the main issualize in the reward function for the generator.

  

I when we train the generator, we have to compi gli agredi of the of the genera, we have to theent of questa function re the the generator This is theredit of these expetation of the expetation of this function here.

  

Si expectation is we can aally we can actually take theen inside the expetation and simply look at the gt thi formula.

  

Ever that we need to remember is that is a discriminator. Is a by discriminator.

  

So it to be complicate funtion but the end of the function we going to have a funzione.

  

So we can re term a the logarite of one minus sing my funtion of the term where the term will beh the output of the of the generator not because we also have to consider the ways of the discriminator, but we can for the sake of the approximation, we can say that this is the output of of generator.

  

Taking you to accountter properties of the deritive.

  

This can be expded follows The deriva of log is one .

  

So the derivative of questo term is one the derivative of one minus sigma, over one minus sigma. Minus science comes from this min here.

  

Hre we are taking the deritive of the log and th we molto fine for the derity of this here with accept to a.

  

If we expand these, do to the properties of the of the derivative of the sigmoid, we optain the formulation.

  

This is essentially exential ofterm using the sacri, the derivative of the sig mode is the sig pride by one minus sig mode.

  

And the deriva of A with stack to is so we eliminated from from.

  

Qu due simplifi, so we can simply remove them from the creation and we are left with dism which is equal to minus minusty.

  

So the gt of the lost with respect the way of the generator, which is used by gradi and in or to up the w is essentially minus the output of the discriminator.

  

I discriminator is really good, the output of the discriminator will go to zero e quindi wredi.

  

So the problem with formulation is that wh is to confident 10 su zero the output of D 10 zero and the agredien on the generator are vanis the generator can longer learn anything.

  

What we do?

  

We substitute in sad of computing ilt of one mind o we compiute logaring of and instead of minimizing in of maximizing the probabilitylogbility we maximize the probability of the discriminator be mistaken.

  

Ain, ts is a by, with mingning front this is the is the binary with the min front w wh to the la to which corrisponde to real data. Per the of training the generator, w we do is we pretende the label of the generate data is one in zero and we with the mingn in front.

  

W we do it perché if we do questa even if to zero the generator che still len, e when the discriminatori, success rejects almost all the generated s Even if you don't remember all the steps What you need to remember is that for original gun formulation?

  

We peopally do not use the original the original losss originally proposed by good fello, but we use t trick, w is also called the manus log the trick or a non saturating gun loss.

  

So you need for the first for the lives you will have to look at this implementation. Formulation of the gun are still in number of problems.

  

The first problem is usually train training still very in stable on stable.

  

The second problem is mod collapse.

  

What we when we say that a distribution is multimod.

  

Intui we mean that the probabilità distribution we have multiple.

  

Per esempio, if I looking at the distribuzione of digi, which is amon to problem in machine learning, intuiti our distribution will have 10 mods, e corrisponding to one particolar digi.

  

Ose we have borderline che che stand the bouny bet differen, ma most of the most of the digi wil beard the of the center over will be impossible forder. We keep confusing the letters with e.

  

By mod claps we a phenomen by which the generator will keep outputing only one or two possible mods and forget or do not learn to output the avver.

  

And this is something that most of you alrey alreadyw.

  

Why does happen?

  

Oppens when the discriminatori is not perfortain on certain.

  

So the generator becom lazy and instead of generating the digis on which for discriminator perforce well generate only samples on which the discriminator is not very effective. And I will spl demostration, but I can pro if is un . We can demostrate is that when we move from the tradi from the original loss to non sat in loss.

  

We have we optain lost that is easier to train because we don't necessy have vanish ingredient anymore, but it is much more subcepble to collaborproping.

  

Bey behind result the is sile demtion that base on that is base ontain distan between distributions that we necess time or interesse.

  

But the the be is that it can be dim a very generator very for generating that to not look realisti, but give a very pty for not cover.

  

So as the generator, it is possible for the generator to get stuck in area of lo , where the samp are very realistic, so the will be very law.

  

Even if some of the mo are not covered.

  

This is usually not a problem for us because in many cases we want our generative model to cover all possible the original distribution.

  

So if per esempio, if are training a generator to generate faces, we don't want to generate only fele bunt or maybe yes we do, but we also want to be able to generate bet or young people o all people and not just be stacking generating the same image.

  

We will come back to the topic of words end of this part.

  

But one of the key propperties are looking for in a generative model is diversity.

  

We want our sample to be diversi from ech.

  

Owise the generative model is not going to be very us for.

  

To sol this problem a sever type of losses w proposte. Quare, the Hing.

  

We will look at one particolar type of loss, which which I don't know if you have ready seen not which is calledstein Gun.

  

Thestein Guy is today one of the state of the art model. Is type of is less accep to mod collabse then the standard gun.

  

Thestein Guin is base on the concept of the Wassstein orth moving distance between the real e fake distribution.

  

It is a concept that was born in in optimization teory and inlar in original it was design to understand how to transport, staff, physical staff, thit, earth, from one part to the .

  

In probability it has be been refraramd at the cost of moving distribution from the distribution of ex in order to cover the distribution.

  

So ima that due distributions wre due pit ofth, pit of harth.

  

And we have to to physically move the heart in order to shape the blue blue curve in the same way as the yellow curve.

  

The most, if these due curves are very simile we have to move mate.

  

If the due shapes are very very different or very very far parte. We have to move a lot of marial.

  

The costot of transporting of physically move in the mess is going to be hier .

  

We use the distan inappximation of the distance between probability faconsons.

  

And in our case, if we assume that one of the probability funtion real data, yellow one is real data, the blue one is the represent the generated data.

  

We want our gun to move the to change the shap until it becomes the same as the the yellow shape.

  

Mathematilly the cost of the optimal transport issd by the formula which is anferium of the expected value of the difference between all possible pa Calcute over the joint distribution of XY.

  

So the distribution of why is a real data and the distribution of the generate data The distance is in princip computer over all possible p of all real data and of all of all generated data.

  

Now is it possible to comprare all possible p of fake and real images Obvious not.

  

So over time So we say that this problem is in general inctable, because even if teoretica works in pratice we have no way of calcolation.

  

We will come up with intractable problems in many generative models. Many generative models have a teoretico formulatist that is no.

  

It's impossible to.

  

So in many cas we will resort to approxima and the pe di approximation that we will somew determina limi of our moder.ally.

  

This is thes is always they trade off between having a model works well and I having a model that is computable.

  

Don't worry if you don't remember all of the formula, but I will like to show you why we get, but then the final out come will be much simpler.

  

We can show telly that the waster time function me a dueal formulation which is structable. Which compiute the difference between the accected value of a function compute of on ex min the expected value of the same function computed on the genera data . Essenzia the formulazioni sa we a random funtion, we compi sver the tover the sample of real and fake data. And we generato the expected distan.

  

And we re for number of differen funzioni un we find the funzione that maximis expeted value and this is going to be our distan. Don't consider all the possible funzioni, but we consider only the class of functions with funtions that rearless whit funtion is funtion that can cannot grow to fast.

  

So i's a funtion that explode. The deri funtion limited and so the deriplo. Use the alternative formulation in Wasterstede to swap per discriminator with a critica.

  

So in of a discriminator, we have a critica which is our function F E questa funzione deve essere differenzia perché è implementato by unural network.

  

Il neural network is in universal approximator, quindi we can usare to approte questa s if we don't kno, we will learn to compute And the output of this function is going to be an indicator of we real images the fake images are realistic or not.

  

We don't call it discriminator, we call it critic because we will see that this is the critic does not produce a bin. Not a biny classifier.

  

So will not produce a biny classification.

  

Budy will produce a real value. Which is so we need to change.

  

We need our. Cannot any possible function, but we need to limit the critic to produ a function that is lipss or close to lips shis.

  

So seun, last of critica is the expected data of the critic expected value of the critic on real value.

  

Vers the the expeted value of the critic on the generated images.

  

So essentially, we compute the difference between the output of the critica on the real images and the output of the cri on the on the real data and we want to minima the san, so we want the output of the critica to be much to be hier on the images th it is on the fake images.

  

So we again want to use critic to discriminate but instead of having a binary classifier we have un out that we want to be and we want to be hier for of For the real images th the fake images.

  

So we want the critica to have this particolar property. We want critica to be a funtion.

  

So w can we do?

  

We have due options the solution not elegante clip aw.

  

If we say the w of the the critica must be between minus one and one then's impossible for the we can exmontere not going to do it, but we can demon that the be limited and so the funtion be.

  

But this is a very strong limitation on the network because happ if the vales of w very close to minus one very close one th the network non imp. A solution but not very elegante no.

  

E più elegante solution is to ad to velo, which explicitely say that the gence of the critics should be small.

  

And is access a sort of regolarization. A same form of regolarization to with multip by hyper parmital.

  

And we compiute the on a value exat, which is a randominaination of the real of real sample and a generated tempole.

  

So When we compute of the discrimina, we have have to implemen our lost here.

  

It is no longer possible to use the binary cro.

  

And we will hear how the lost can be translated in p.

  

This is random combination, so random combination me that we need to generate in random number step.

  

Il random num so that the output will be a lineare interpolation between and the and the fake sample.

  

The generator on the Abrahand millim the distance or in o maximi the critics output on the fake. The discriminator on the output of the critica to be on the real sample the generale the generator t to balance and we try to increas the output on the fake until the output until the distance until the the critic on the on the real fake sample becomes more lele.

  

This is very different from the original gun because the critica is not a classifire.

  

So this is not This is not a minimization of the log probabili.

  

And theredient remains non sting.

  

So we ag scal because longer limited betw zero the g much stronger through training.

  

So the origin for the original gun implementing the original is lit simp because we can use the binar cropi, we can use a funtion which is revibly able inside of tor For the v complicate.

  

So we can start to see more less how it looks like And then ts is something that you will also see in the next too labs.

  

So don't worry if you don't take it all in now. But just to give you a guideline guid è also to maybe recap some of mainctions.

  

So this is only a catch of b training look if you recall from from by tor in order to generate to train the network, you will need to writely architecture of the network. And you will need to write data loder that loads the data.

  

On you have done tw part, the train loop will for e data and apply the optimizer in order to upgrade of the waits.

  

And we will repeat the until we finish the number ofpo that we said.

  

Here we will see on computation of the loss.

  

I not include the computation of the gent and the computation of the update of the wuse this is something that yould al know my suggestions is if you have't train the network for a wild that maybe This is also suggestion to go back to the train loop of the standard neural network.

  

So in the original gun and in the Vaterstein Gun, we have to blocks w train the critic or the discriminator, one in which we train the generator .

  

When we train the critic, we have to do to things.

  

The critic will compare the will compare the images with the generated fake images.

  

So we need to sle. Images will come from the data lader. For the fake images we need to sle. Random la code.

  

For example, using the random the normal rend function in torch .

  

And then we will generate the fake images us the generator function.

  

So this is a function that you will have that is going to be that I'm assuming has already been implementad w compiute the which implement the architecture of the generation.

  

We pass the real images and the fake images to another function critic which is again eural model.

  

So the generator and the critica are to funtions which implement the generator and the If you train a normal inad of the critica have a discriminator.

  

Then we assume that we have implementato the function that compute for penty.

  

The last function for the discriminator is the minus the expetati on the real data.

  

Sorry, I switch the colors.

  

I have to switch the colonna are in correct.

  

We have minus the expectation of the real data.

  

This is the output of the This is the output of the correct real quick of thes lide over whise you we not understand.

  

What I'm say.

  

And this should be colored Okay, now the colors are correct.

  

Ok, so our lost is the excted value of the critic over the real data.

  

This is nothing else that be mean of the output on the of the critica onges.

  

So we take the output and we compiute the mean for the miniatch.

  

The expectati of the critic of the fake images is nothing else but the album so the album of the criti of sake igism again compi the the me whipe.

  

And ten some multipli.

  

So is the equivalent of questa formula.

  

Gener speak when you see qui un expe value is a me for for number of samples, questo is the me over the mini. We say overise.

  

So w we need to do is the fine funtion that compiute the gen penalty.

  

You will also have to define a never function that compute the lost on the generator.

  

But this is going to be relay simp because filoso of generator is just the expetation. Just one, so don't need to s The lost of the generator is ac is siedution of the of the critica.

  

So foren, we will need to for computer the interpotion. Computer interpotion, we need to to genera random number This is actually a single brandom value.

  

You will need to take the interplation between the real samples and the fakeamples and I will live it to you to write to feeling the missing instructure during the missing instruction during the laps.

  

And then we will compi the out the output of the critica over the interpted value.

  

A the here lab are not need.

  

Then we compiute the gredien with interplation Anden we compiute the and questo will return our penty.

  

Soy you can take this as given This is y a function from torch that compute the gent us in back propagation.

  

And you just need to understand how to some rereal and the fake samples multip alp.

  

Theter is per dge of prode more train.

  

This is to visualizzare in a very high dimensional space , but if we considera to very distributions sile distributions in un model distributions in a single then.

  

We can see that the vas will covideday and if the to the distributions not over la.

  

If and fated not overlat, it is possible for the discriminator to perfect to perfectly separatem. This will give a crede in the tranusivo But the distance is always def.

  

And sot of the critic is always going to be in zero.

  

It will increase if the samp If the sample get closer, the velo will get close to zero, if the a repart, velo, but the it is much eas to work with the grat of the blue. Function and it is to work with the grat o the red function. That are exally ever very, very high or very close to.

  

This will give a more. Will give you very unstable agredien and there's for very unstable learn.

  

The images will improve and loss his will very wily.

  

They was a sy should give you a lost that most.

  

It will a late from batchd batch, but it shouldn't give you very wild olations.

  

And it should And adge is that the gaster time gun actuy has lost ten zero as the quality of the images get better.

  

The discriminator lost in a gun never go to beuse the best che can do is full in your discriminator, so producendo a random output of the discriminator.

  

So the original much more difficult to train because the e if the discriminator flat the quality of the images may continuue to improve.

  

This is not no true for thestein gun.

  

If critica is not improving, if lost of your criting is not moving, the quality of the images should not very.

  

So should be easer to train.

  

Il most importante a take point from a the perché are the che going to need to in or to train network.

  

The other important part is the architettura.

  

This is the architettura the original, di C, Deep Convolutional generativaversarial network.

  

It's relavel all architecture, but it still in architecture that is moral wild used.

  

What are the best are points I we need to look for?

  

Well, the first thing is here takes input actor for examplector of 100 but then you immediately have to con i.

  

So here you need to use a specific type of layer, which is not convolution to do this projection.

  

The second thing that you need to look for is how to.

  

Youe that theze of the and in the output you have the actu outut shape, so the output of the last inhis case 64 by 64 meaning that the image will be 64 by 64.

  

We have un pool and in order to am we normay usede convolutions.

  

Over this is something that.

  

I thinkt vi remember.

  

The output of the generator is an image, an image has consiste of RGB vales.

  

So one of the questions that we need to anwer is what kind of activation that we need at the end.

  

This was one of the question and most of I think most of were confused between e relu or and.

  

The images images are between zero and usually,56 because usually a images are on 8 bit.

  

E, if use, we get one of queste properti perché the be zero.

  

But If we ki by, we don't even have propertive perché can can also have negative vales.

  

But use, the output is going to be unde.

  

Where as the output of the image is bo between zero e56.

  

So us we a funtion because hyperbo tangentis between minus one and one But images are to be images are not between minus one one Yes, of course th you have to normalize.

  

Remember that the output of the generator will be compare with the real images.

  

Real images are RGB images, but normay when we images and when we give images a to a discriminator what do.

  

Anybody can help me What to do when you low the images before giving them me as impput when you net.

  

I'm sure that this one of you remembers.

  

Do you give the same valuses that you load from this input inl network?

  

Or do you do s some sort of pre processing?

  

Normal.

  

I think you have answer.

  

We't really do some solt of the process, right?

  

Do you remember something about features stay?

  

Normay the input to network is scale becausetilly speaking we want all our input to beh in the same range.

  

How do you scale an image?

  

Uually?

  

You subtract The me and divide by standard.

  

Quando the me and divide by the standardvia What is the range?

  

What is the range?

  

They you normay okay?

  

Raff speaking. And then.

  

Ye, one. Is t that the images on disk ar between zero and56, but when the're input to the discriminator, there going to be normalized been minus one and one.

  

So if you use the an the output of your generator will be raply comparable to the real images.st in the same range.

  

If you start with images that are not in the same range, then the discriminator will immediately know how to discriminatem.

  

And it's likey that your training will get stuck really really easy.

  

So Every things I we need to remember when we wen we train deep convolutional gun is to the convolution, convolution for accamp and to zation laer after accept for the genera output Normay between eer in the bzation here.

  

This is what we sugg also wh when you work with y with your architecture.

  

That said The type of networks by themselves can on the generate data in condition.

  

What do you mean by unconditional generation?

  

It means that we have no control.

  

So if we train on am , we have no control on they generated.

  

Image will be a zero a one e or 7.

  

In some cases s conditional generation is sufficiente, but in most cases we want to be able to tell network something.

  

Right now we have very veryach models that can even condition bas very complex textual description.

  

For easy to give a tex descriptor, but usually conditional generation can be a rela easy base on the class value.

  

So for esempio, we assume that we have training set in this case, we have training set with two label, cat and dogs . We can control our contional gun by attaching e by using vlable as an ad control.

  

Vela and I think ts is something that most of you have have remember correctly valable does not replace the randomdom valable.

  

Vlable is concatenated with the random variable and given also to the discriminator in addition to the fake and images.

  

In the labs will see how to move from unconditional to conditional generator generation base on the label. .

  

And this will not require any major changes to lost the lost remains the same, but require the change to thechite perché the generator e discriminator new input whi is the Owe lost the s so we can have e non saturating gun with the minus log di trick or we can have wterstein gun inde of the discriminator we use the critica .

  

Also in case, if want to condition, the critica mke input nont only to images, but alsolable.

  

Because realisti esempio is realistico or not depend categorie we so we need to take input.

  

The label is the easist form of the eas form of conditioning, but we also have other forms of conditioning.

  

For example, we can condition e gun base on base on in other image.

  

Most of vie should have seen alrey the pixar architecture, so questo should be a reminder of something that you have alrey seen.

  

In the pik Pixar architec, we have domains.

  

For esempio, in case, we have one domin which is the sketch and one domain which is a photophic image.

  

And we want to train network to map from one domin from the domin of sketches to the domin of real images.

  

In this case the discriminator takes input not a single image but a per of images.

  

The original input and the generated input original image and the original per image for the real images and for the fake images it takes input the input of the generator and the output of the generator and to determina fake or not.

  

Pix to pix require per the s.

  

So i requi dei due images to be requi to a data set in for e ima the input domin we have corrisponding image on the.

  

In questo caso t is rela sile che perchéuse the sk can be, but it possible to take an i generate skch using some sort of image process tech.

  

So we detector and we a skch that we can use to train our pik.

  

There are a few changes that we need to do to o architec.

  

This is not something that you will see in the, but it's something that to start rememb The may change that the generator becomes in.

  

If you don't rememberry in in the in ta imput its.

  

Eder is a special type of network wen but just ref.

  

It takes a one image.

  

The first is a standard, the more standard conclusion network, whi is compresso in a lat and then we decompress image in the space using a generator.

  

Quindi questo fatto the architettura is the same in the generator we hac in corder because the input is longer a simple label which we can conted complete . Specifilly to pix us special type of coder whi is that is by skip conne for the for the purpose of o what you need to be familia with a concept of coder.

  

And this is shing that we will we will see again when we talk about. Variaticoder, so so i d't remember what incoder is This is something that we will need to refresh our memory.

  

Of course, it is not always possible to have the samples.

  

So in some case the best can do is of samp in different that are so.

  

Per esempio, if I want to transformi moneta in the best I can do is come up with Puncho photograph that are taken the same the same And the best I can do is to have possible money pa.

  

But impossible to have a ph of what money pated at the time because for once we can go back in time.

  

And the say for ex esempioample, if we want to converte in Norse Zibra, it's impossible to have p ph of horse and Zebras that looks in exacly the same, but are different animals.

  

So in this case we have to use a more complex architecture, which is cald cycle gun that t to combine images from emp set e in to that we use something that cal pycle consistency.

  

So we take a real image and we generate a fake image.

  

And ten we go back from the fake image to real one.

  

Sorry, we go from a real domain, to fake domain. To fake image in One domain and then we go back in the original domain.

  

This is cold asycho.

  

Il real in a fake Ibra must match and this is cald Pycle consistency.

  

So if we go from essenti p cons if we go from the paing to and back to the paing, we And if we go from the moneta moneta pag to ph and back the pag, we op.

  

To achieve we ave to comb due g.

  

One that goes from the domin, which is the target domin, w and which goes from the domain B to the domin.

  

U is is and is the so content and the over domin is style. Il target domin.

  

Pycle consisten that when we go back in for we pres content.

  

And the discriminator loss is use to eval we have corre trans stle from the from a target.

  

So if want to translate for to Zebras, Py consisre wh we translate from horsebra, we will not change location, we will not change the cause we will not change number of horsees.

  

And when we translate from horses tobra, the discriminator last will insre that the fakebras look like the realbras.

  

They serve to compon So we have two guns and again.

  

This was probably e scening in the picture that you had in the quiz.

  

Each gun is actually and incoder the coder.

  

So if you look at your hand out, she will see that the gun each gun is actually in the coder, which takes as input in image and kiss us input another image in another tomain.

  

The consistence lost is essentially a pix lost that tells us that we real image After, if we go from the real fake and and back to the, we should the same result.

  

So this is essally a piwise lost at measures the error between images.

  

Theversario for the discriminator is sre we we me thebility of fake images to full discriminator, which is a by. Original cycle gun used velquare lost which is et, which we will not see, but shou kno it exist.quare losty treats the classification problems a a means a problem and the difference bet the output of the discriminator and the target.

  

As ifere regressi problem instead of classification The final loss we look like we will have one component which is the avversarial component.

  

And due compon and one componente, which is the cycle consistence lost if we go from to B and from 82 and one which is the identity loss if we go fromway anything go from 8 to be.

  

I think this is To me this is not a very crucial part of the course, but I think it's very nice reminder that we can use guns to do something more complicated then just just generate un single image, but we can also use gun to do translation between one domin the o is anrea where guns are still used.

  

In other area where guns are still reth that of super resution.

  

This is again in example that was taking from professor bottinos lessons.

  

So most of you should have ready seen.

  

I not interested in to remeber all the de of the architecture.

  

Here the goal is to Giv in original image at high resolution and a down sample version is to res the original image without losing detas.

  

Normay regular accamp will produce a hi resution images, but we' will producery details in to be interplation.

  

Artificial technic, such gun or diffusion model will produce much sharper ditalos.

  

Theype of networks, the intere parte of the type of network is that we have a generator which is in which we could imp principal train in a supervis fashion.

  

Ually the since theution even generated from the fiution, we know the target looks like.

  

So we couldly comp the difference between the ution, the super resolution and the hi resution bethima images and uses.

  

And in this is one of the compon of the lass is the sort of pizzawise loss.

  

But w we can do is al usa discriminator in a gun like fashion, the takes input the super resolution and the hiution produces and to discriminate the consistent of not.

  

Why we want to do this?

  

Because the avversario a gener will produce shper detas.

  

So the content loss will do most of the heavy lifting in reconstructing the hider solution image and mantain investimentical systees, but the adversario discriminator can acce un approximator of visual cortexill to produce much more realistic and find rain di.

  

And ess since solo of the content is in the interpre what we m actuall inven de that are no longer visible.

  

And in those in that are cons statistics of natural images.

  

So the ad the avversario il componente in the missing.

  

And concept see to super resolution can be appli to many o problems per esempio estimation If you want to estimate the death from in image, usually if you had in other serial compont the the quality of the output w increase.

  

So I think I covered the most of the topics that I went through material quite fast because for most of you this is mostly efure what the only thing that is really knew is Vstein Gun.

  

From next time we will go much, buch slower because we will have to they just new matel.

  

But I wanted to refresh the main the man elements that you will need to actually diving to imple.mentation since man of view will proly not have seen the implementation of in the machine learning course.

  

I want to take the opportunity here to go a little bit also in the implementation.

  

Next time you will have week to complete vegan, so next time are any questions that in the la we will start by matelid.

  

So don't worry if you think you don't understand everything will have time to comback to it. 

