
---
## Transcript



Se funziona l'audio Prova.

  

Prova.

  

Today we going to work con a new family of model, last week we saw generativeversari networks and the vari.

  

This week going to star talking about family aressive of generative models that are calle autoressive models.

  

And in particolarer, we will talk about transformers.

  

Before we getted, let show you if you examples, In the slide you can seeh pice of tre outputs from generative AI.

  

The first one is generated J è il new web search e po web search by Google. That sheti when for your query, bas deva content.

  

The second is a set of images generated by int of regressive e specific model which is cald bar.

  

And the is a video, generated by one specific model which is cald Nova .

  

All of of the outputs a generate by a network that due.

  

The are attenti base so the transformers and the a autoressive.

  

Today we will foc on the first part of questa equa base, so we will review some We will do review on transformers and try to go, in the architec of transformers.

  

Next we going to talk about we say when model is autoressive, but spea For a model to be autoreressive, me che generate one pie of the out as at the time.

  

So for esempio, in the case of text e no regressive model will generate senten one talken of the time i reches the the end of the sentens or a pretty termine number of tokens that they are allow to generate.

  

Some of you may have alrey scen the concept of autoregressive model, maybe they haven't defd them as autoregressive, have maybe you have ready scen in the previe in prius ex int this is the parte I do This is also part of what I te the machine learning for vision e multimediase is how to buil a regressive model.

  

We don't necessaressive, but is we will see next week why this term is us in association with mod.

  

Transformers are well kno for text.

  

I think that now days it is a well known fact thatsformers lead in architecture for for text and inct when ChatGPT came outP, was base on architecture, which is called GPT and the T in GPT stands for transformer.

  

There base on the concept of tension, what is may not bequally own is that transformers can use also forever type of data, not necessass religio, stexs, but also images and videos and th Free dimensional data.

  

Erie reminder brief recap of what you may have seen in previo in privious courses.

  

In autogressive generation we tre generate each taken as a function of the taken that presided them.

  

So we are viving with a sequence of taken. Aree that we can process sequence, tre type of networks networks a one possibilità. Network are design to work con sequ and have a buil in noti of order dei process one element of the time to produce one to produce the output and the output depends on the state of the networks of the previce of time.

  

The other possibilità is to usare convolutional.

  

Convolution are design to work on most famo for the work con images by they can be apted to work one on one.

  

Sequence well Or we can use transformer and in particolar we can use self attentions.

  

Recu una networks where state of the art until transformers came out.

  

We will not talk about them today, today we will focus exusi on transformer.

  

The adge of The adtage of recuour network is that the are design for or sequencees and They are efficiente in process sequence since they reuse waits at each element of the sequence.

  

And in princip if we can if we use architec, so long short on memory that are caple of problem of vanishredien,redients they can also be process rela long sequencees. A pri is that the process the input one ele at the time there is no possibilità of process in entire sequ in a paralo.hich makes very slow to train, above training inerence time.

  

One convolution, the bed for long sequencies because they process one cunk of text at the time or one chunk of tokens at the time.

  

But are high architec Then that we will see today transformer work on a set of vector e set is in un or resieguence.

  

So we will see that the transformer process they in set of vectors enti set of inputs in paral withoutss caring or be able to directly take their ordin into account.

  

Each output depends on all the input simultane.

  

It is a hil architecture, we will see that It is base on essentially at the end eventure of Matrics multiplications.

  

So it is hily paradi, but it is extremy expsive in terns of memory and computation.

  

So transformers be the norm where when we had sufficien resources to train both in terms of data and computational power.

  

One thing that we should notice that you probably alre know it is worth reme is that recure networks convolutions and self attentions are not necessa generative models.

  

We can use networks and transformers for classification .

  

We can use them for regression task, we can use them for segquentation tas.

  

So we will not deal today with all the possible applications of of the type of architecres we will focly on how they can be used as generative model.

  

And we will see that transformers can be reporpose as generative models by reframing them by training them and using them in autoregressive setting.

  

So that's where the connection between autoregressive model and transformers coming to play .

  

Today we will break down the architettura peace by peace, to understand exactly what is going on.

  

We will study the properties of the object from tw points of view.

  

One point of view is how to generato text or ope of sequence.

  

And the other point of view is how to optain good texal representations .

  

I think that you already, even if we haven't seeemed then yet, I think that you all know late and diffusion models, such a stable diffusion.

  

And you have at one in your life, try to generate an image starting from a texture description.

  

Quindi una of wh we care about transformers is that to condition e the ima generation on a tex description, we need under how description can be ende.

  

And the we will stu how the diffusion model can into image, but will see in a subsquent week.

  

So most of vie have alrey sesformers So this is going to be f a recap of what should alrey know, but we will also in much creator deta because we want to make we understand all the operations that are going on.

  

If any point to get lost, just tell me and we will stop .

  

We don't have a lot of material to cover today, so we can stop whatever you feel like.

  

The core of the transformer is the attention In fat, the paper that introduce the transformer was un tile attention is all you need.

  

So the idea was not to introduce a new conceptention was aly used inunction networks and concl networks, but was rather to build in architecture where the only element of computation is attention.

  

Attention is comp base on set of vectors.

  

We will use generilly the vector or token.

  

We will have a look at tokenzation the next week, but for the moment we can think of vector token and word as close to be in the sng.

  

The're not the same thing, but relative the same thing.

  

So ifursformer is operato in tex, the tokenzer will have translated our words inc and theformer will operato onctor.

  

Quctor are known vales and the is to by me quer by how que and and are compati.tibility is me moltiplication. Moltiplication che a similarity computation.

  

So i l' output of the computazione is very, the similarity will be hiplication is small the similarity will be not not particolarly relevant.

  

The attention will through the set of operations that we will look into later for the moment.

  

Suppose that we have all the blocchi that is compution coefficiente, the val will be multip byenti coefficiente. The outp of the transformerer is a set of input val modulate by the one that are by the by the by the tension metrics, so that we focus the computazione, all the on the val that are relevante for the task hand.

  

In in transformers que ector, quees and actors of the same size, the OK. Before input them into the attention computation the are proje by multip with lena. Operation here where we from the input X to the K impli e moltiplication by of.

  

We not be schema will be very big, but when we from X2K we are actu multipline by a set of w .

  

The computazione per sées have.

  

So all the w of transformer come from the transformation.

  

Attention comes in essentially two flavors, self attention and cross attention.

  

In the general attenti in the general attentier the input X is a andue.

  

So we take the input, we we compare the kiys against the quries and from the input we only keep the partet of the input that is relevante the queries.

  

The kiys and the quries do not have to come from the same distribution.

  

They are set of lector.

  

In selfatention, the input is al use us quiy.

  

So we will study both versions General attention is also sometimes cald cross attention.

  

In self attention we are using the computazione all inside sequen in cross tenon were also compa in one sequence against .

  

And asy already know, we may not looking to the future.

  

This is something that we will see.

  

For the time we will study the regolar attention in which the output is a funtion of all the input.

  

So we look the entire sequence at on.

  

If sequ is the senten, we obser all sentenze and then weformi from the beg to the end, we processid all at So is is one possibility.s is one possible attention.

  

So let's look a little bit's going to the details.

  

The blue boxes here rappresent our inputs in this case we have very short sequence with only free elements.

  

X12 and X3.

  

The datactor ex we assume that in general we have inputs in this case and to free and we assume that ector is of size di ex or DK.

  

Sometimes we use the location in o cas we use in the pri sentens in the privious light we use thetation depend on w we model we will use bothtations.

  

So each of ex is not one single value, but it's vector.

  

And in this case we have thector suppose that the size of the is don't know 5002 each of the vector is each of the ais will be one vector of size Ok?

  

The keys queries and vales are again vectors and metrocies for the Per esempio for the qui, we have a certa number of que.

  

We don't necess have same number of que spect and the s number of inputs for ex in this case we queries and free input.

  

So we are compag one sequenza di elements ast in o sequen of elements.

  

Gener speaking, the quivector will be have a specifi dimension diQ and we can have in general and Q qui vector.

  

In questo caso and Q è equ DQ or may not be equal. Size of the or ma not toze of the input.

  

Booth the vales and the quries are optained from the input by multip by multipline them for metrics by w metrics WX and WV that Transforms the input in a new space in which similarity can be computed.

  

Qu are train the actual parameters that are be in trad.

  

So all the trainable parameters are inside the metricies in a transformer.

  

Poi we compiuto la silarity.

  

We have to and HQ istor, quindi we multip lector in or one of themose in order to optain one single of calar, which is the similarity whi will so cald e between the and the key.

  

Questa similarity is ris scale by dividing by the size of the qui, quindi scale in.

  

So if we havee que and kiys and for queries, we opta metric which is free by 4 and contain 12 different similarities.

  

Poi similari to a soft Max laer.

  

The soft Max normali e col for e col the that the some of the is In o, e qui predi a distribuzione oki.

  

Wh is a distribuzione because S is one so we can reinterpret the similarity is as a probabilità distribution.

  

And will give us a normalized normali similarity metrics which we calle the attenti metrics.

  

This is a set of w e set of wait is eal to each colon some to one.

  

And set of are multip are multip to the valuector, which are transformation of the input X. The output of questa moltiplication is sound as qui in or to op val.

  

We have one outp value for e e qui and ech output is a combination of all possible all possible inputs.

  

Since Samovich is, the output is a line combination of the one and free, but we know that is actually iverage because we know that the some cannot accede the some of the free of free .

  

If the some ofch colon wasn't equal to one, we could, course, when we multiply and some over the free vales we could have explo exploding out.s.

  

In case, the output are bounded by the corrent vales of the valuector because the The each output cannot exde some of the the waid some of the free.

  

So far good.

  

Any questions, follow the computation.

  

So if thats is okay, we can go on to a self attention.

  

In the self attention, we have again an input the size of the input is deca, so ech input is the vector of size deca But in self attenti, the que, the kiys and the vales are all optain from the input X. There not exctamente input ex because for all of we have have the moltiplication with a corrisponding way metrics.

  

In questo case the input the the ys the quries and the vales are all transformation of the same input.

  

We have the same number of ki and the same number of quries.

  

So the size of the number of que is to number of input and us we way metrici in order to optain all of the sze.formation, the vales the ki e the quries will be of size di .

  

There not necessa necessa keep the same size as input the be lar small multip metrici.

  

And e input will produce one output which is a mix of information from all the input.

  

The mix is mediated by the attentions and ain the attentions are generated in the same way as in the regular attention.

  

So we multip e key and e qui in order to one scalar which we normalize by dividing by the square rote of the size of vector.

  

This will make similarities comparabili across differentp different tp of bed.

  

Notice that in questo case metrics is always square because the number of and the number of colors are always the same and there equal to the number of inputs.

  

Again we the softmax, the softmax will insre that each colon will some to one.

  

And we optain a set of waits ech element will be between zero and one and they will be multip the vales will beultipd by the attention.

  

And ten we some in order to optain prepos.

  

So The self the are very very sir. The ma difference the.

  

In the case of the que aresformation the input in the case of the qui come from se .

  

In the case of self attention, the block is necessass square, attention a and size and by where is the number of inputs in the case of cross attention the size of of the attention metrics depend of the number input and the number of que.

  

We said the binning that attention works on set of vector e set is in or sequence, in or structure e un list in which ector is reped only.

  

So t is la definition of set.

  

And to see wh this is the caso, le see w if s if we change the or of the input.

  

So inad of X1, 2X, we change the order from3 to 2 to X1.

  

If we switch the or, al call a permutazione of input, the que will be a permutazione of original que .

  

The kiys will be a permutation of original quees and the vales will be a permutation of original of original vales.

  

The Matrix the similari a going to be, but the or of silari is going to be per. For esempio, if we look at the original metric, qui we have similarity between 1 and query we have similarity between 1 and free and quier free the similarity between ki and should be here but I mess up this light.

  

I will fix it, I will fix it.

  

And e to and should should be somewhere here.

  

And the same ofse is tue for the attention matrix.

  

So if we some, if we compif we add the elements colon wise, we optain that the output is the same as before, but we semplice change the output, the order of the outputs.

  

Sohetilly speaking, we say the selfatention is permutation equivariant.

  

If we perm the input, optain a promutazione the output, ma the computazione per change, so the actual output is going to say the same in terms of value.

  

We same.

  

In re network the not be the They wt be the case if we swap the order of the input, the output the final output after we process all the inputs not.

  

So network is not permutation equi I change or we also change the output.

  

Hange the or. Questo be okay in some conte, but in many cases, for the or of the senten or of the sequ è importante.

  

If we take a sentenza and we scamb all the , we not expect the me, expect the me of the to change int we expect the me of the to become non sensi because the word will just be random random words.

  

A transformer keep formulation, transformer necessa care that with crud all the word.

  

So any permutations of the same word havey s for the transformer.

  

So we do we do deposional in cod.

  

So in sad of giving as input to the attenti just the vales of the just the input vales with some positional ind.

  

I we change the or, icomes one, the talken be the same, but be s different position cod.

  

So the network is a different the or of the.

  

Per esempio, if we take very sir senten the the the cat, the cat chas the dog by position we can distinguis per action, in the case of the dog chases the cat.

  

The dog would have a positiononal in coding one the cat would have a positiononal in coding th and network would be able to differende between the subject and the object of questa particolar action.

  

There are many ways that can do the positional in cod.

  

I not sure we will able to go into the detal but For the moment I think what we really need to know is that ad in a position in coding is not necessass in an integra number one t, thre.

  

So the position in cod è necessa just the index.

  

But the a w we can use to in code la position that makes learning a libit easer.

  

And one point that we need to take in to accounes that sequencees can have very diff we need positional cod that work, even if we change e if we change the land of the sequencies between training e destine.

  

This is something that we will look into today, but keeping mind position in coding is just not the index is more complicate in.

  

And the are se we can do it.

  

So We have seen cross attention, we have seen self attention now let me ask a question.

  

If I have a very have a sentence, per esempio, the dog ches the cat.

  

And if I use the la when I process the world dog, I also use the word cat in order to comp the attention valus?

  

Yes.

  

We don't care about the or.

  

Alluts, all are combination of all inputs. Which input come first.

  

So when I process the first senten, I look at the process the first word, when the trasformer processes the first word in the sentenze, it looks at all the sentens the end.

  

And when it processes the end of sentence, it looks at the all the sequence all the way down to the first word in the sentence.

  

This can be sometimes problematiche that me that our transformer is by definizione the future.

  

So when the transformer and this is sething che go back next, ma when I transformer I on complete senses.

  

But when I use the transformer, tipiy genera one world at the time.

  

So at time, the transformer will not have access to the end of sentens because the end of sentens doesn't.

  

It is to be generated.

  

So we need for many applications not all of them.

  

Per esempio, if we train a transformers to do sentiment classification on text the tpe of attention è assolutamente ok perchéuse we process the usually for sentiment classification, we process text that is a online.

  

Per esempiole we process e Twitter e trip advisor review and process the review at.

  

So we don't care about which part of the text comst and which part of the tex But in when we use the transformer to genera text, we to do it one element of a time.

  

So we can not we can not reze on these transformer block We need to insre that the network is not looking backward.

  

If this is the first elemento of sequence, I changeuse I think is small type and it's I think it can be confusing.

  

Please should be you one. Because it's in order and you should be be one.

  

Let's go back to the original am permuted transformer.

  

X1 is the first element of sequence.

  

So when I compiuto the similarity between K1 I cannot look at vales that are different from from K1.

  

Because K1 cant look I hide in the future.

  

If I look at the final element of the sequence, XR can be associated to any This small numbers a drive me crazy.

  

X3 can be associated with K can be associated with K2 can be associated K1 beuse X-3 is the last elementa of sequ Some of the numbersent similaries. Numbers similaries between due elements thatre not influence over because they come after the specifi element we are consideri. To remove connection that look ahead to remove connections that look I had in the sequence we over the similarities that should not be present with a minus infinite value.

  

In practice we will use a value that is now even, very very large.

  

And we only keep the similarities that are between elementis of sequence that should be able to to influence.

  

So e element can be considere in association with ech o We can consider for example the association between Q2 and K1, but we can not consideradere the association between query 2 and K free because K3e comes after in the sequence respect to quie to And quie is la last element, quindi the last elemento can influence can be associated to all the free ki. The first elemento of the sequence can only be associated to the first first can only be associated with the first with the first key because the are the first element of the sequence.

  

In prace, this is uptain by modif the similari and e mask, which takes a val if the two elements are in the correct order and minus infinite if the two elements are in the increct order.

  

Minus infinite plus any number is to minus infinite.

  

Quindi questo willsk out particolar combinations.

  

Why do minus infinite?

  

Why don't we to zero?

  

Normalmente, wh we mask something, we zero Why choice of a very very lar negative number.

  

Because we have a softmax a softmax is comp by questa formula. Takes the exponenti of the logi divide by the some of the exponenti of loge.

  

The exponenti binus infinite is zero because limit of the exponenti w the logica to minus infinite zero. Ter the soft max minus infinite becom zero so ess we a mask out a mask out che corrispond in element in the attention mcs.

  

Ech output is a combination not of all the input, but only of the input that are that preceed the particolar value particolar value reca that each value is actually the input transform.

  

So that means that input ex is the first input transforms all theet all the outputs but the the last input only sorry.

  

The last output depend all the input, but the first output only depend the first input by some aention. Transformer for text is strutted by combining players of the tpe and how do we?

  

We have dimensioni in which can a n architec.

  

We can gro in de and we can grog with.

  

In with what we do is we use multihead attention.

  

So usually at in text analys, not in all applications of transformers, but in text in led language models, the number of attenti attenti is usually more than one.

  

So the same set of input or the same set of val is simius as input to multiple head and so multiple and multiad.

  

This is the same princip as convolutier.

  

Convoluti laers will use a stack of filters we use a stack of attentions.

  

But us in convolution networks, we use very large number filter for H transformers are much expsive, usually we take a number of heads, 64 or 32 It much small numbers.

  

If is the number of heads, all the w are replicated times.

  

So e set of e set of head will have a different of set of linear projection. Element scale product attention is essentially operations here are also cald scale.ention.

  

So all the metricies here more compact representation.

  

One thing that we didn't mention is that the output here is simply the some of the line some of the input, but in practice in multiention we have a line transformation.

  

So the final output will be a combination the output of the he will be combine and th multip by line set in order to fin out .

  

So can see we have line combinazioni for projections for set of w.

  

The scale. Product pension doesn't have any. Just a carries the balk of the computation.

  

The projection carry the Balk of the memory.

  

So they have dis E final final stop and then we will take a break because we have have a lot of moltiplication.

  

So if we look at the computation that inside a multiention, essy what we have are metrics moltiplications and sformer and like the convolution is banche of metric moltiplicati and s with the onlyception being the softmation, which is non linear transformation.

  

Suppose we have a self attentier, in the self attentier the number ofze of the input is DK,ze of e ctor varies in quries, is the same.

  

And suppose that we have and inputs and that we have a number of head.

  

So my question to you is how much memory that we need to store the attention metrics, so the final metrics.

  

I will give you five minutes to think about it and then we will we will discuss.

  

If it help, we can go back to these computation.

  

So my questi is how metri if is the number of input.

  

Assume me that you didn't look up the solution before.

  

If fenomen of input is, how is going to be this metric?

  

And square.

  

If we have ha ads, we will have to replicate the matrics for H times.

  

So and by H is going to be the amunt of memory that we need.

  

Poipendend on the number of beats that we use to stotion, we ma have much metric.

  

So per esempio, if we assume that is, so if we assume that tax 100000 tokens and we assumed that we have 64 heads and that we use floating point 16 to story attention vales. We would need more than one tbyte of memory, to story entire attention metrics.

  

No GP use today have mont of mem. Get It gets very expsive to have a lot of memory. Un GPU, the best GPU that we have have the moment 80 Gby of memory.

  

Th we have a lot of memory outside of the GPU but we need to compi the tension on the GPU in order to get adtage of the speed.

  

100K since word since a lot, but it's not much if we want our LLM to be able to understand a large of text.

  

So if we want our LLM to read one book and give us an ans or look for something in enti book.

  

We going to lar sequence.

  

Ually in LLM terminology decidep the input is context.

  

So of the contex gi the lM of the sequen we can process.

  

We going to see is, but I found YouTube video that you can watch if you want more information.

  

The are solutions the are a family di val che are flash attenti that in of computing the entire attentis divide the kiries in block They compiention metrics e the time and the stream the computation of the Southma functi so that they can break the computation of the ometrics a cross di wout need to realize to actuall store in memory the full attention metrics.

  

That said a very larch language model w require a lot of memory just for in because of the quadrati scale in memory.

  

There is a of is a new type of architettura that isle Mamba or Mamba Family that could provide linea computation, but it's still not very at the sate of the arti still not used as often as as transformers.

  

To give you some context, do you kno depsiek?

  

Have you heard of deepsiek?

  

Deep seek is a model that was open source by a Chinese team that was much lower wait in terms of the current state of of the art.

  

So the of parameters and of.

  

When Deepsick was released, did you know w happened to invidias stock invidia on the stock market?

  

They drop so much.

  

They drop more than the crash in the 1930.s that let to the great depression on a single day.

  

Then eventually when back up.

  

So didn't last, but they thank to the on that very day really thank the share. That A lot of people have a lot of money on the effct that we need these large computations in to mak thing to work. This is was driving the corrent race to hardware I think a couple of days I the new that one of the pre major M provider, memory provider stop selling the consumer market.

  

So they will stop providing the consumer market and focus only on data center.

  

Because of this.

  

And with the lot of optimis, I think we can take 15 minutes break. You back in 15 minutes.

  

So So before we break, we saw the self attention block The multihide attention block as the fondamental. We keep o with the convoluti con la convolution networks is l'equilente of the convolutier of the convolutional operator in connett.

  

We control the w of oork by ver, the number of head.

  

So of very number filter.

  

We can make our network wder ro by controlling the number of heads.

  

The with of a network is is optain by stacking the selfatention laer or the attention laer on top of each other. Normally do not stackself attention directly on to each other, but we use on top of the self attention, we use some normalization layers and we use an MLP that transforms each element.

  

So the transformer block is not only self.

  

They multi selfention, but as al some normazation and MP laers that work on e independ, so the MLP and la and the normation, works on ech transforms, ech element.

  

And as can see we also have a esquipe connection.

  

Ins block the normalization is after the skip connection, in ope of architec, the la normalizzazionetion is before lazione.

  

Bu a parte f minima variations, this has been the transformer block 17.

  

These architectuasy to scale in easy to paralize because most the computation is aplicati.

  

Quindi we have m moltiplicati inside the s and we have the MP that will introduce another forma of moltiplication and we introduce additional pareters.

  

So give an addier of This will give additional capability of the network to learn to transform input.

  

Notice that the the transformer block on the sequence of the same of the input just transform. The block manipote the input in a way that to enfasize of the input and di enasize of repart of the input and the trasformation that is mora equivalente to computation in convolutionwork.

  

So theput is a map which is show l' transformation of the input modulated by the attention.

  

Self attention che risolve the interactions.

  

So the normation and MLP are just for essy sca learning scaling in transformation of of the input that maybe different at each of the network, but the interaction between different element of sequence is only modulated by attention.

  

We can stack on top di e other and otain transformer, transformer will have a s transformer steck.t usually as deep as not usuy as deep as conusion neural networks.

  

Ech transformer blocks compute e transform the version of the input t for tempo if you want to do classification, we will need to ad a final multilayer percep that final output.

  

But for the purposes of for the purposes of language generation or for the purpose of generative models the selfatention will work by taking as input e sequence produ us output e se which is transformation of the se. Esempio, we can give a prompt to transformer emer will generate the of that prompt.

  

The original, this is also call decoder only architecture.

  

You re the decoder architecture from o cors.

  

In questa tipe of transformers, w are the one we use to generato text, we only have the decoder.

  

So ts is decoder only architecture .

  

This is not the original original model from from attention is all you need, but ts is actually original GPT model.

  

Qu architec then train on larm on a lar number of text and then is generato see how the generation works other time.

  

The original since the original GPT which had 12 12 blocks had embed of 1,4 and had 16 heads for laer and a sequence of and code the sequence of 12 tokens The architec has been not fondamentay the same, but very simile what has changed a lot is a scale.

  

If we go from GPT to GPT2, which was years later, we go from 200 milioni parameters to 1.5 billi parameters by in crisi con number blocks, buy in crisi sequen, by in crisi number head.

  

If we go from GP2 GPe which was publidar later, we go from 1.5 per meters, 1005 billion pareter.

  

And you can see for that the number of heads a incre from 256 This is This dre then after w I think we don't know a much about the architettura, I was we used to because the origin in the begining there were more pub now The market pressure has driving a lot of these research behind behind close doors, so we don't have a lesst the same taple di information that we have model.cia a lot of model when the scale of the number param grow sor model anymore on premis our laptop we generally them behind API because we need inference we need multiple.

  

And this is shing that can be done only at the suiteble cloud infrastruction.

  

What we see behind the API is not necessariamente just the model.

  

In the AP we also.

  

So the parte of the API that does a prefiltri or t mani the pro manipted.

  

So we don't GPT computation, but see a software product that include also transformer.

  

In everything that we never important aspect of the architecture that we don't have time to seet is also very interesting is the conce of mix ofpert.

  

The most recent architec multiple of the networks, the expert sono on different in different quindi speciali for differen and a differen all the expert on the expert that are most to give a good.

  

So t is that This is the way that was design to scal up the architecture without necess making the the computation time at influence exp.

  

So this is also So w is the adventage of self attention?

  

When we process selfatention la to understand which parte of the senten are most important to the code or to under the me of the gitenze.

  

They the allow the lage language model to connect all the words establish connection between different words of the sentenze in order to for esempioample, in this case to better interpret that can have more th one me or that are polisemantics.

  

For esempio, if we sens, the animal di cross the street because it was to tired, we understand that it refer to the animal.

  

We don't understand to the gram, we understand to setics.

  

Tired is jective that does't that is not applicable to a street.

  

So sind is an attribute of animal that it will refer to the animal.

  

If we change the sentence and say the animal didn't cross the street because it was to wide, wide not necess can be a property of the animal as well. But morey a property of the street.

  

It makes more sensi e more interpretation that the animal di cross the street perchéuse the street was to and so the anima was scared th thinking that the animal was so that it couldn't cross.

  

So most in the most interpretation it here rest l. Sorry to the street.

  

Attenti, let the network learn that in order interpret it animal in this case is more relevant and street in this case is more relevant.

  

When the attentisforce the feature of of the sequence of tokens, the feature of it are transformed based on the attention base on the attention onsention metrics and inattention metric metrics what we understand of attention way is that it is really very relevante to understand what it means what is relevante is world street or the world animal and so the feat should be transfor a corningly.

  

In the transform won of it, we will carry on some information from animal and some information from Street by multipline the corrisponding feat by thesponding .

  

And we will lose the information the talken of because they talken of it and care carry a lot of information.

  

No that here the puntution mark is also token and this is also something now we will see probably next week, but we need to ca in mind that tokens are not completely equivalente to word and mark and end of sequence are also very to token.

  

This is not the only possible transformer architecture.

  

This is also another type of architecture that you may scen whi is in coder the coder architettura or in some in transformer in the transformer family it5.

  

T5 is a model that is is the original modely in attention is all you need, one of the original model in presente in this paper.

  

In this case the incoder reads the inputs and produces a re representation of the input which is then to the coder which takess input the during training the output in order to produce the output probabilities. Tipe of architec decoder architecture is use for task such a language translation or language di suarization.

  

So the encoder will produce per esempio we read English and the decoder will translate in another language, maybe Italian.

  

Um This is different from the pri architecture in which we only had the decoder and so all the attention laers were actually selfenti.

  

H in the encoder decoder, we have un mixer of selfention , which is the block in the encoder and the block in the coder and cross attention which is this block here in blue As you can see the cross attention takekes input not the output sequencef but the but the context that comes from the input sequence.

  

The during training we use for the output, we use multihead attention beuse we dant to look back.

  

Our goal be to due translati, so we must a to work autoressive fashion one talking at the time time.

  

So we use max attention, but we alrey know whatk is that's not a problem for us.

  

He this is an example, is not mine.

  

It comes from a tutorial, on cross attention in transformer.

  

And this is a translation between English and Ine.

  

So the is In And I think it was a nice example because even though I have not cw how this is pronuncing Ine.

  

But I think it's an nice example to see for a change in o alphabet.

  

Because we tk to think of transformers as transformers operating always on the Romanal But we can also use it to work con other tiples alphabet And even on languages in which we don't have alphabets at all, but we will need to change the way that words are tokenze according to the specifi properties of the language.

  

When we train the transformer, we train in ordine for example to translate the senten we are friends in other language, we will use both selfatention and cross attention.

  

Selfon and the relationship between words in the sentenze in the input language.

  

So for esempioample, In questo case we have, we friend and the attention make an ipotesi, ts is the sketch we don't know if the attention way are going to be extribute.

  

But I think it is to assume that There is going to be a strong relationship between R& we because we need to take in to account, to congiugate the verb and is going to be ager con between and friends because we need to come to use the plura friends, but also because Friends and we are semantilly connected inside the sentence.

  

The cross attention will incode the relationship or the strent of the association between the tokens, the words in the input language and in the output language.

  

In this case the sentence is very sile, so the number of number w is the say, but recall that in coder the coder the number of imputs and the number of outputs doesn't need to be the same.

  

So we could have We could have in another language maybe the same concept express in tenwards or th tokens.

  

Per il tempo, in Italian we could express the same sentenze as siamo amici and we would use only to what.

  

And we order is not necessary the same.

  

For esempioample, in Italian we will use the same order subject first, verb and then the abjective In Japanese we would use a different order.

  

We would use the the subje first th friends and theb.

  

Because in Japanese for example the verb is always at the end of sentence.

  

In India I have no cw, but base on the cross attention, I spect that it works simiy a in Japanese because the what the friend has a stronger association with what.

  

Then then this what.

  

One thing that I didn't mention, but we will will ofourse, talk about it when we next weekend again.

  

The output of the decoder are probabilità. At the end we have somacs and we have autobilities. A probabilities across possikens.

  

So will give us a distribution on the w possiblekens, all possible words and we give us wre and which are less depend on the part of the that weady or that we have alrey generated.

  

But we will come back to how train next week. Here we have again the problem that the self attention does not care about the order, not depend the order.

  

This is al tr about the cross and to sol problem ain we need to ad positional and cod to the input.

  

And usy we had the positional cod a weforma the input in sw and b.

  

How do do thi?

  

This is also if we have tex for esempioample, we will do it us in a word if we have images, we will do it us in suite for example, convolution.

  

The same concept can be appli to images, for example.

  

So if we want to apply thesformer to the images and this was awe later, these paper from1.

  

What we can do is say okay we don't have a concept of word in a image, but we can pa similar by transforming the imagine a set of patches.

  

Uy or them somew and this is usy done follow or from to bottom row.

  

We flat them and we project them, this isy convolution convolution laer and we produce output eties of lector che are o .

  

If we do questo, then we can use the, we can give the set of me as input to transformer.

  

But the architezione of the transformer is more, il princip of the transformers not change, we als use the same blo.

  

In the case of images we also have the positional that we need to use.

  

We don't use mask because ech image pches connected all the other image pches.

  

So we don't we don't need we can look at all other image pcheses within And we use a position in this case from from Questa positi and is ain, not a numbers you can see a you see, but usally a transformation of questo number. That reta certain properties.

  

For esempioample, if we train on images that are of but we use the VT on images that are000 by we want to keep the same positional in cod.

  

So usually a positional and cods are normalized toze of the image.

  

So that we can or we need to use some sort of scaling when we change the input resolution.

  

This is not un autoressive model.

  

This is la classification model.

  

So the original vision transformer or VT was una classification model.

  

This is not of ima generation. Will see some examp later or next week of architectures that can generate images one patch of the time.

  

Autogressive models in images are not so popular at the in text because of the to the pacification that a number of problems we will see next week.

  

This is a classification network, we al usally one additional emb, which is repred by as, which is also cald a classstoken or CLC token.

  

The class token General information è un lenakent compre, but we network and will allow the network to make some to take in account global feat when the network does the final prodiction. Is a classification network and we will have will have MP and we will have a classification.

  

Ose for generation e network we will usare a different architecture, but the building block will E by the building block sono for tex imag. The adge of one of the ad of architettura that allo to usare la same may to process multimoel information by multimo information that comes in different images sounds and support.

  

The IT told us a very important thing.

  

A sufficien scale and to give you some perspective the first vision transformer was trad on version of image night that if I re call correct ifly 10 times be original. Original ima.

  

So if we have sufficiente and by sufficiente più compiute with me sething that is much larger than di original image, whi is only one million image.

  

VT will generally match or surpass convolution I nworks on vision bandmar Benchmarks and by visionmarks I mean essentially classification and segmentation benchmark.

  

CNN have certain bke in properties and we called those properties also inductive bs.

  

The main properties of transformer of convolution networks, a translation equiva and locality. Translation equi, I that if take this objt and I move from to, I do expect the compute by convolution network to change.

  

E transformer nonest have in property.

  

If I move un oje from to, po the w that the transformer will The transformer will operato i will change.so in a transformer e token has a position, where convoluti networks use the s on all positions of images transformermers not ech position in the image is transform and elaborated in Independly but also in connection with all over all o pches.

  

At the same time a convoluti di una network will operate on a certain of image at the time.

  

A convolution network wat cant establish a relationship been and patch will be when the network is processing the part of the image, questa part of the image will be outside of it recepeld. The convolution on are not really capable of scene that far.

  

Transformers do not have such inductive biases.

  

The just have just have attention.

  

So they need to learn all inence from the. Data, w mak very data, but mak it al possible for a transformers to learn exptions to .

  

Quindi è possibile that in some cas ifslate obje, i.

  

Ifing toccupato and I change la position of number Sudok will be corre.

  

If to usare a convoluti in network to tedok solution è corretto not you cannot do it.

  

It's impossible to solve it, but a transformer can do it.

  

If you have enouample to traint.

  

So the problem is that the are very very angry.

  

So today we will not see autoression because it's getting with late, but we will see one particolare architecture in which uni differen and in particolare we unifix and images and t architec is cold Clip.

  

Clip was again publis in 2001 and was born out of the idea that instead of training images instead of training image classifires we can train can train images associated with text of description.

  

For esempioample the fact that here we have a man in a black short is playing guitar.

  

Here a black and white dog chamss over bar.

  

Image net was at the beginning manually.

  

Now we have collections, we have tere, we have flick.

  

We have a lot of sis where people publish keywords or descriptions associated to images.

  

So the idea is why d't we just scrape them?

  

And int, Clip wasly train on millions ps of of images and text and They didn't write those 4 million captions by hand, but they use a collection of existing of existing resurces and scraping to build this giant da set.

  

The idea behind the clip is not necessaly to sol specific task.

  

But it is to learn a good representation.

  

So to lear from natural language supervision.

  

And they do questo by us due One is a visualder can be a transformer, can be a convolution networks.

  

So does necessari to be a transformer versi And i usa a tex coder w è il transformer to process the corrisponding caption.

  

So in this case we have un image.

  

We have caption and Alpine Laking winter.

  

And the Idea a the very hi leveld clip is to lear in space in wch an image the of the image the associate to image are close to the associated to the corrisponding text.

  

We don't have it here a but if we have un other caption that does look like questo image, we expect the corrisponding the brere or , but in ogni caso far away from the corrispond image.

  

And the adventage of us tex supervision is the text.

  

We don't necessave to devi to design number of classes.

  

Texe form and ally it becom un open world task.

  

If we design a classifire like ima was a origin origin design, we set a fixed number of classes.

  

In imaginete we have one000 classes.

  

And the word that say that means that the word that imagine sees is closed, i doesn't have a word behind classes.

  

Clip is potenziay open world because it is train by tex description and tex description made in princip contain possible concept.

  

If the corp lar eventu clip will have all the possible and have learn to associated associate the concept with the visual representation.

  

Have you already heard of this model just out of curiosity?

  

It was my curiosity.

  

So clip is not not not only a transformer.

  

It is It uses two en that we which we can take from praxis in architectu that mi be pretra So we mi pretra tex coder on large corp of text, we might pretra the image and coder on a lar corpus of of text.

  

A training time, what we do is we take the in of all o set of captions.

  

Suppose for example that we have a batch of size and.

  

We will have and captions The text and color will produce 10 beds that for a transformer will be the output of the last laer is going to be .

  

The image in coder again as an images because in a batch wect beches with of size and.

  

So the encoder will process an images and generate and embds.

  

For emb, for ech of image and caption we will compi per similarity.

  

How do silarity by multipline the corrisponding the corrisponding. If the sono normali, questo is the similari è very simir to the self similarity.

  

In the we conct the a training time in very specific way.

  

For e image we have one caption which is the corrisponding caption.

  

So if we have for example ty images in the batch, we will also have 10 corrisponding captions for ech image the will be one caption which is the corretto one and nine captions which are in correttoce there associated to our images.

  

So we expec similarity to be very high in a long diag and to be in all the o positions.

  

This is optain by a particolar tpe of last function whi is chiamato info, whi form of contrastive loss.

  

Constive loss is is a type of lost was born incial recognition system.

  

So you want to pushs of the same person phs of the same person close in feature space and you want to push phs of different pers fare away in space.

  

This is that shou have seen with il professor Lamberti. The concept is very si .

  

We want to push a caption very close to the corrisponde image and we want to push the captions that are notlevant far away from that image.

  

The intution is for ech image V we want to identify with caption to reze it perfect description of all o possible captions which are calctor.

  

And the caption will look for it so made image among all overble over possible images.

  

So this is the intuition, but I think we can also there to look at the actual math of how we implementis, which is not very complicated.

  

The lost is a combination of losses, lost which control the periring between ima text, in this case we want the of the image we close the of the text and one lost which contro the opposi. We want to the text to close the of image.

  

The loss are the same so are express in this way and The only thing is that we switch switch.

  

I think should be must switch e and here.

  

But a part from these I will just At, we the the two losss are we can forget about one for a momento and just foc on this one.

  

Here what we have?

  

We have this storm SJ or SJI, SJ is the similarity between the P E and the Perj.

  

It is computed as the product of of the duectors.

  

So it's the same as in the self attention. Compi the product and we a single scalarp the transpos one future for the octor we op. Normalize that scala by the norm of thes will give us a number between e bounded number.

  

And we multipli by effe che is and Is presente by s. Controll how disuzione is and how much w we give to the hi simity.

  

So if we use a law we accept a loser association if we use a high, we want our association to be ver very.

  

This is way a parametro that is traina in clip clip the optima value.

  

But a part from a tempature, this is simply the similarity between due vectors.

  

Then from the similarity we compiute the softma.

  

This is the softmax of the similarities.

  

So the denominator here wil some over all the in the, includono the negati.

  

The negatives a what we the disc.

  

The images of the tex that are not correcly associated.

  

So we want our intuiti we want term tof thinks a a logi if you think this a the out of the softma, we want our similarity we want the similarity for the corretto ima to beer the similaries and the softma will insre that they one.

  

So can be interprete we due probability.

  

Poi weve lag to con probabilità in we have un perfe match if the probabilità is one. This is the equivalente of classification.

  

If we have a classification, we have perfe classification if the output of the soft max is one for corretto.

  

And if we take the logo, becom la minimi problem.

  

So hi probabilità me lo en we some all all the example that we have in the batch.

  

So if we have an examp in the batch, we and by and by .

  

Ually type of architec, type of contrasti architec requi very lar the beches to small then the number of distruc then it diffict to have good distructor in the b And then we sim in that when we do the train, we train the en and tax and the image.

  

So we don't want to keep one of them fixed we want to train them so that the tex and coder is aware of the visual representation of the image and of the word and the and the imagine coder is aware of the tex of the tex representation.

  

This is use for because the same for example, think of an example I can think of examp in English, I would in Italian.

  

If som such as la pesca del nonno Pesca in Italians can bech or can me fishing.

  

So la pesca del nonno can be translated as the piach of my grandfather or my grandfather going fishing.

  

These two sentensies can be associated very different images.

  

So the text must lemmi.

  

Ofour, this case it reall possible because we don have information, but if we exten the description usually a to ambi which is the corretto visual reentation associated to given text.

  

This looks very complicated in in formula, but if we look at they implementation, this is una real implementazione, a skch of train loop whit see will use clip There are bunch of pre train model, so that you can use.

  

But he would look something like this sove the imagine coder t takes input the image.

  

You have a tex in coder, takes us input the the text and produced to featuresnap.

  

We are normalize to normation that the norm of the corrispond inctor will be one So the some vales in the victor is going to be one. Compiuto the scale per silarity us the do function, quindi multip all possible lector in the image for all possiblectors in the text emb and scale by the.

  

Then we take thelable, the la is aally all possible all possibles and there going to going to be one if the index is the s because we assume that e image is with the corrisponding with the corrisponding Caption and zero for all the o possible that are not related other.

  

And then all the complex formulation is actuy our b But the crop è calcolad on the out of network è calcolate on the cosa.

  

The crop usually includono al the softma which we don't see here because the cross is computer direc on the logic, so we don't explici softmax .

  

And we some the due loss and we.

  

So looks very complica in on paper, but we doing is actually reusing the crotropilo computing the logi by essy sort of distance between due lec.

  

Inpe of contrave model we inside of us the similarity, we use for esempiole distance.

  

But if the vec are normalize, si us the distance of choice.

  

So how do we use clip in a number ways?

  

One possibili, clip was origin tested for zero shot classification.

  

So how can i model I clip perform classification?

  

It was design classifier score.

  

So w we do to produce a classification is we generate a fake.

  

So if we want for esempioample to know which obj in questo image and we have a set of possible la for example, we take all the la from ima generate a set of possible descriptions tex description that are in for a ph of object.

  

So we will generate the capption e ph a plane e ph of the car e ph of the dog e ph of the bird.

  

We in the all using the text coder and we all the sities bet the of images and the corrisponding captions and we the caption that has the hist silarity.

  

And this is going to be our classification .

  

And we can do this zero shot, What do it me to do zero shot classification?

  

It means that we don't need any examp for the classifire.

  

We just on the pretraining of clip to produ a classification.

  

This is not what we will do in our course we will not use clip for t type of classification.

  

But for us clip is going to be very important for seons.

  

The first reason is that many many generative models like stable diffusion and Gemina daelive the w said you know. Use prompt e prompt.te image by giving a tex description. Tex description must be in somew and use clip or a clos related model to con prompting to text description.

  

Why do we use clip and we don't use for example a taxt has been a che has been train tax only because clip is more of visual representation of objects and better of produc and coding that takes in account the same word can have different visual representations.

  

So for ex, If you If you use a model that if you use clip emb and you want to generate an image of a golden rever or image of a bassetund.

  

It is morey that the coder will be more aware of a different of fact the images are the visual repreentation of different breze of dogs is different.

  

And certain because the the ind space of the texture repreentation in clip must bed with the representation space of the visual resentation.

  

So facilitate facili Then task the other the oct which is not necessaly a generative task, but it also veryful increative industries is to be able to perform image text retri I have a description, I want to reve ima clos rela to description.

  

This can be done by compag the representations in the clip space.

  

Clip is use to compare generated images and tax prompt in order tovaluate per quality of generation images.

  

This is we will the end of the end of course, but when we per generate images and specialmente when we generate images star from text, we al need to def metrics to e given images is good beautiful and clip like architectures can also use in this context.

  

So many of the of the topics that we will see in cse fro diffusion models, late in diffusion models will incorporate clip in some way.

  

So we will will not len how to train it, but we need to be aware that it exist and that it has these christics.

  

It also has limitations.

  

One of the most important limitations by means the only one.

  

Is that it has a7 token hard limit on decation.

  

So it cant and code by design, captions that are long girl tan7 tokens. 7 token, I talken is mora equivalente to a, but it's not same as.

  

So in term of word decaption is going to be also short7. Comes from how the position embd are incorded in GP2 which does allow the model to code positi longer7.

  

It was res sub type of position cod, but in this model reins a limitation.

  

So what is the pratical conseguence?

  

We can not use very long pro or better, we can use them but most systems will silently tron.

  

So they will have to maniptem somew in or guide.

  

So esempio, the going to wait some par of more and keep only the one that are more relevan or they can divide the prompting chunk.

  

This is something ConfY or we need to switch to over architectures that use longer prom.t.

  

So retrain clip, they can train longer context for example stable diffusion free uses e the transformer model that can take up56. 56 token.

  

For this reon, o limitations come from the way it is train in space.

  

So for reon we have pe of clip, ape of vaant, for esempiole open clip, line, flava, that try to remove some of limitations of clip. Which are Aund limitation because the way we the prompt in a model like stable diffusion w determina the quality of image.

  

If we lose information when inding the prompt than we can recovere later when we generate the image.

  

Last, but not the same concept of clip can be extend toties.

  

Per esempio, we can use the same concept, the same and lost to video features with all the features.

  

We can use them to video features with tex features.

  

So that the input video is consistent with the text and audio is consistent with a text and video.

  

This We need to considera due alimen se because the the tex must be al ma for the text is sufficiente that the oent all the text.

  

But the odio must be line with the video in or for the words to appear at the time.

  

This is th in lip synking, for esempioample, we in liping this is partilar eviden.

  

But evit for esempioample if we are caption in a video for non for blind people in blindwers in that case we want the audio way from to be lined with what is seen in the ima.mage.

  

And this is sure by by contrastive lost here that takes get of aliment.

  

The enco can be can be the architettura the inco is the same, but we can use modalità specifica or modalità agnostitica and coder be in the senso we share a differenties or use different for different modalitàties.

  

This isue fors is particolare architecture that looked atw video audio in text, but the s concept can apply al tovertipe of modalitàties more general.

  

What we need to we need to adap specific modalità is the way generate For text token are going to be generated base. For vide there going to be generated base on the images time for o we need nu way to segment the odio and computer.

  

La pacification la trasformation bet the input and the è going to be going to be specific and for e modalità and usually projection is lequare.

  

Per esempio per input us le b specifica by training the bd on Wikipedia for images can learn projection using e per esempio convolution network or a 3D convolution di una network if we have video.

  

So we can have different options.

  

I think for today we have seen more less all that I want to cover.

  

I hope that the most important concept are clear.

  

We don't necess we will not work with the attention anymore, but we need to understand where the computation comes from.

  

And next time we will see how to transformer and code in autoregressive way and how to appli concept of regression not only to tex, which on which we have a reas intution, but images to generate one a one patch at the time.

  

If yout don so, there is a short hand out a cle of pages on the concept of conditional probability, which you may have or have seen in in your previous studies. My suggestion is to read it before next.

  

If you haven't done it to read it before next week so that you have the the basic concept cleer before we start. Will be here for a minutes if you have questions on these or also the lab.

  

And if not I wish you good weekend and I will see you next week. 

  

