
---
## Transcript


I think we can get started.

  

We will start revely slow today, so If someone else comes, they can Today we're going to continue with the transformer networks and we going to see how transformers can used to generate text images, videos in autogressive fashion.

  

And then we will move on to ano class of generative models that are varia Soday we going to see classes and we going to start to compare the properti of different families of model understand why certain models can use for different for different task and different situati So let's re that the idea behind the generative model is to learn e join distribution over data.

  

So we want if we have sequence ex, w X sequence of data points, so sequence of D or and data point as you prefer .

  

And ech ex is an element is actor, so we have sequence of.

  

The idea of the generative model is to learn joint distribution. If to modern the probability of a in our tex I thin about tax modeline e for the purpose of of descrip I will implici assume that ex sequence of word of tokens in a text model, princip di generation we more purpose of discussion at the momento, is sequence of,x, pix sentenze. In our model to understand to learn distribution, the jint joint in distribution, which is of compose by t speci.oin distribution of obs combination ination of not just the probabili of having a single word the probability of that word in that specific sequce with all the oth all the other words.

  

In auto regressivi models, we apping the cin of, so we conditional probability to optain e a composition of joint distribution which w extrem to inmide steps where eps e step consider one elet one element ex as a function of all the elements that procede. .

  

Before going to general formulation, let make a very specification. Suppose that we have five words.

  

So our sequence is compose of five vectors, X2 X34 and 5.

  

We would like to thecompose probilities, joint probability as a product of conditional probabilities of XI where e ech element is condition on the on the joint probability of all the elements presid.

  

So for esempioample, if one is equal to, questo will be the probability of ex2 conditiond on X1.

  

And from the specifi example we will go on and try to understand more general formulation that can be apply to sequence of of any leg.

  

In Let me be more wilt more specific.

  

I can find it.

  

So in esempio questa formulation becomes per esempio P of X 4 conditiond on3 X2 X1 or P of X2 conditiond on X1.

  

So for ech element of the sequence we can compiute the probabili condition on everything that comes first.

  

The idea is to think of a way to apply to decomp joint probability by appline the conditional probability formulation.

  

So we know that the joint probability of A&B is given by the conditional probability of obsving gi multip probability of A. So my proposito is to start from questa formula and try to decomposi jint probabili So that our formulation only contains conditional proties and we get read of all the joint probability of more than trctors.

  

So I will give you a few try and write out for yourself and t we will see the togher we will buil the solution and then we will move it to general formulation.

  

So before I give you a solution, I will give you 10 minutes to think about a possible way of achivinghi goal.

  

And if you want I haveers if you to right And then we will see vegeral formulation.

  

I don't know if I have They are just blk papers if you need them.

  

I also have a couple of pence, if you need them.

  

I want them back.

  

We just cause that it call me.

  

And we can make it work.

  

Okay, so let me just where is what are my slide?

  

So the idea as your collega w is to start resi apply the conditional probabilityle by agning a one of the term in questo case I started from the back, quindi from the last And a signing a be the joint probability of all the terms that preceded the lastm.

  

So in this case, So I can just cant here.

  

So if we go to back to the definition of conditional probability, What we are essentially say is that in this context a equal to ex5?

  

Sorry, be equal to X5.

  

And a is set to the joint probability of all the elements that precede X-5 So in this case, X124.

  

And we the first step of ouron.

  

Some of yout started from sequen sequ . That is alble option, so you start from the small sequence and then you increase and ad in other element.

  

This is al w to approch for problem.

  

I I did the oway round.

  

So now you have moved.

  

You have produceze problem by one elet.

  

Because now the problem is that you have to estimate the joint probability of observing So we reat the anys and we say, say that now and se and is the combination of X12 nex And we thecomposi conm a combination of one conditional probability multip by the probability of observing x.

  

So now we still have a sequence of tree terms and we the composi, so now equal to and is the combination of X1X2 optain this formula Now the last term is the joint probability of X1X2 in thi caso we say che Bal to X2 and to X1. Comp probability of X2 give multipp by the condi probabili of X2 gi multip probabilità of X whi is the first elemento of sequ cant e further and the we stop.

  

Some of build sequence sta from.

  

So the probabilità2 gi1 multipli probabilità of X1 E poi ha the presi the o elementi.

  

This is fine, which a work for you, I will put them both.

  

In the end, since this is a moltiplication of term, the moltiplication is comm you can rever them from the first element and go back to the last elet. And so in the end I re a probabilità of X1 multip by probabilità of2 gi1 e so.

  

E questa last formulation is a resi formulation in we can start from the beginn of the sequence and go down to last.

  

Yes.

  

Vi assume che this is sequence, in princip why not we could obser could observe.

  

I curbine the elements in which order we want.

  

But we normay use the or the or by the ins because this is text.

  

Soes, the sequence is ordere.

  

I think that most of you got is part the probably the challenge was to make it resive.

  

Notice that here we apart from the first element, we condition on the probability of the sequence that comes before. We go up to X5, we are conditioning on the joint probability of the sequence that precede.

  

If we think in terms of text, t be the probabilità of the first word, probability of the second word After ober the first word and this is the probabilità of the t comple the first in the sentenza.

  

And by the time we get the word, t is la probabilità to o word after at the end of the specific senten.

  

So e element in the chain is not condition just on the element, but on the combination of of all elements that precede, overwise the formula would not be correct. Which was the problem in your formulation.

  

Ok?

  

This is the re ricorsion, so a resive formula can be appli infinite time.

  

In practice our sequence are alws finite because we don't have infinate computation.

  

So we will put stop and we will considere a sequence of the specific land D And this will become a product of probabilities and we use thistation with lesson to indicate the combination, the joint sequence between X1 and the to the index of i minus one.

  

So this is the conditional probability of observing e given e given word X of I given all the words that presided in the sequence.

  

This is a next sight identity.

  

It is not an approximation.

  

Sorry, let me just try if they put it here if it's more stable.

  

So this is an ex identity. Is not an approximation.

  

We are ext computing the probability of observing dead sentens without Without making an approximation on the actual computed value.

  

But with the comp problem in series of interd step and e step we compi una fraction of queste probabilità.

  

This is exly what we do when when we sample from a from a large language moder. Lar language model appli questa formula to generate the next token in a sequ.

  

And how can we apply the formula?

  

By say that joint probability conditional probability, P of XI gi all the elementi che precede è comp by a not regressive model for esempio transformer that is caratterizzato by AC byl network F with parameter.

  

In of o probabilità is computer by a model and the model is train to the probability of e of e component given all the component that presided.

  

A a priori we don't know In practice weample until we decide we stop, quindi we decide che the maxima lent is taken.

  

And wh reach taken we stop or we token which is un end of sequen token.

  

So one of these due options.

  

So a priori, we don't know the left.

  

We know the left when we train.

  

So when we train the autogressive model, we do is we take logy of this formula.

  

So the product a of the product the some of lo .

  

And each the some is computed on all of elements of the sequence.

  

A training time we know a lamp of the sequence because it is given by our train. S.

  

So decompose our text in sequence of given in questo case maximum left probability is nothing but the of a softma computerd on all possible words in ourbili.

  

We use the crosstropilos to drive the model, words predicting dible completion for given sentens. By using the crotropilos ast the obs word.

  

So if in a in a gi senten, we obser that is una di existen we w incre for that world In the end this is very looks very complicated on paper, but in pratice do isly next token us a soma And a combination of crosstrop bas on the ground truth which is the sentence that we have in our train.

  

Ofourse, for gi sens, we can have molto. The soma will not have a pick on a given individu individual.

  

Ually in a lar language model, the soft will have multiple on multiple word che are base on what was observed during vetrain.

  

I will show you an example that will make it clear.

  

So during the train, we do what we teacher forcing.

  

So the network train on sequencies prefine sequences Ually we sample text from Wikipedia, boogs, source code, whatever we need to train on. And during training for evolve elements in the sequence, we alws consider the ground truth.

  

So we don't train the network on it predictions, but we train it on the ground truth.

  

During generation ph we do what we cal semp.

  

And in sempmp we direcly excte the resive structure.

  

So we the first word Poi bas on the word that we have generated, we next one and we do so un we re a convergenceteria.

  

This is also what we call a fwork te in time and at e we generato one token.

  

So ts is a very expansive procedure because we generato the talk one time.

  

And e semplice will causaus on the pri e sle will determina will be determina what we before.

  

So will not be independent.

  

This is what allouse our model to generate sequence that sequences of text that make they make sense.

  

So see very simple example what happenamp.

  

So the model is given everything that I have generated so far.

  

What is liy to connext?

  

Suppose we give our language model prompt.

  

For esempio, the set.

  

And t is so we don start from an sequence, we start from a sequence that from the beginning of sentens.

  

The autoressive model compi the probability of of the sentenze and we compi the probabili of of the all the word that are avalable in the vocab based on the inial prompt.

  

So let's make in assumption, let's suppose that our LLM has computed the following distribution.

  

On is a probability of 65% Down a a probability of 15% Still is h probabilità 100% and every combine h probability of 100% The cat on, the cat down, the cat still able continuation.

  

Every not so.

  

So we need to one word from all the possible vocab and semplice significay according to cre in questo caso probabilità.

  

The a multiple che can, ma for the of semplilici let assume that we al the with the hi probabilità .

  

So in questo caso we on.

  

So the first iterazione, the semp generato the word on.

  

Poi we atta to the corrent sentenze and we op new sequenze the cat set on wed to transformer per transformer will produce as output e distribution on all possibles.

  

And in questo case we observe that the most probable the most tokens are the with probabilities0% 20% e0% every every el is very 2%.

  

So the model will choose in questo case the because it is the mos And we will fied it to the sequence and ain the transformer will the probability over the possible.

  

In questo caso supp that we find Met with 25% 20%, so 20% every 35% è that he of distribution is not very pick. The maximum probability is 25% perchéuse we can have moltip multiple oje on w the can see. During train, it is possible that the transformer has observe the different versions of the senten and e version of the sentens has pushed the probability words the corrisponding word.

  

And ts is the avverage is appro avverage of everything that has been observed.

  

Again, if we pick the most lighty word in this case, we will pik met.

  

And we will continue until the end of sentens is riched until the the model produce a special taken which is cald of sentenze ora end of sequence or until we run out of token.

  

So a travian comes first.

  

This is the probability of ex of Yy even everything that comes before.

  

During train everything that comes before is given because we have the tex . In time, when we, everything that comes before is what has genera far.

  

So we have op generale at the time. Which is wh for questa type of model inference is extrem exsive.

  

Not only we generate ample of the time, but we need to compi all the probabilità, all queste probabilitàes and decide which one we want to pi.

  

And this is the This is also expsive operation.

  

Here we have the maximum, but we will see that this is not a viable option, so we need more sofisticated, strategy and they for more expensive strategy.

  

We can do the same things Autoressive generation is the state of the art for text.

  

We not foct on text because our primar is to foc on images and multimedia in the sense of 3D models, video and of Text generation requ requi to model all the element of of chain's very relative more complex.

  

But you get the over idea of how the transformer operate.

  

We can applive a concept on images, but it's far frequent.

  

Here you un example of an architecture that does autoregressive modelssive generation on images.

  

Instead of Instead of working on In of working on word, we work on pches.

  

This is something that we have alrey seen last time.

  

And instead of having word and beds, we have imagine badds.

  

How we are working the This is something that we have already in last time when we work with story.

  

If I move it, If I'd keep it fixed, it's too far and if I move it, it records.

  

This is something that we have already seen the first part of of the grap, something that we have already seen when we saw Vit.

  

So if we look at the VT, we had this already this concept of dividing in imaging to pches then in line projection and app transformer in coder.

  

But in particolar architec, we don't want to genera we just want to produce classification.

  

So we to lear the transformation from the input space tom in space, but that's it, we don't need any.

  

If we need to do autoressive generation for images, it is not sufficiente to go from the token from the pches to the e in space.

  

We need to a to go back to the image space beuse we need user is not going to see the Tch, they want to see pix.

  

When work on autoreressive generation with images is more complicated if we work with pixel the complexity of the problem explo And if we work with tokens, we a much more manag we need to have incoder theder that can transform image into a series of in a series of and go from vector to p and images.

  

And this is we don't know how to do.

  

This is to do this we need, which which we have not alreyen.

  

And it not in princip possible to do it directly in pixel space, but it is extre tre exsive.

  

The are s networks such a pixel a that produce one pixel at the time, but the re and it's qui complicated to get very good result in pixel space without these tokenization I forgot to ad a slide I think I forgotto slide to the set I publid I wild after the class.

  

The idea that we need to divide a sequen into tokens is a core element of transformers.ard you working with text, you working working with images, you working with o type of data.

  

For text, process is cald tokenization and actually compose of due elementi.

  

One the sentens in of tokens and one that tranforce token in ec.

  

In ector which is compose a real vales.

  

Tokenization intuitiy we could use as as tokens words.

  

But this is not actually what happens inside a modern day transformers.

  

A modern Transformer uses something that cald subward totion in which token can be a single word for part of the word.

  

Some will be compose by multiple tokens over will be composed by be composed of In other case the single taken can be compose multiple words if you have combine words.

  

If we had to going to the detal, we would have to talk with more about ts.

  

We don't have enough time to go into the ditas of to organizations, know that in the labs you will use tokenizers that are available, that usually for use pretrain networks.

  

The choice of tokenization will influence what the model can produce because the model doesn't see the text, the model sequence of tokens that and the way we split the sentence in to tokens has a consequence on what we can model effecally and what not.

  

For example, we might split some word into subward to take an adventage of the compositity of language.

  

For example, we might not not use different we need to understand if we use frent tokens for a word singolar elora so for because that will If you think of the stues of token that you have available a a sort of vocablay, perample, in your vocablay, you don't have all possible. Of the world.

  

Ually you look for for, ifou looking for the verb, you will look for the about the infinite. You will not have a specific and the for each possible coniugation of the verb.

  

And tokanization takes care of of these issues and usually toccaniza language dependent.

  

So the way we tok for English mi be subtima if you want to tokenze for Italian or per esempioample forap the ch are completamente different and dot follo. Rules.

  

I token can be a whole world e part of world a single character for esempio number or podu numbers or special tokens like end of or end of sequence that we can use to understand We can use to train the model to recognize when to stop because some point the text is complete in the LL does not need to generate for that information The emb invactor for those of you have alrey taken machine learning for vision in multimedia we use the one one hoot and calding in our examples.

  

But this is not really what we do in a moderno transformer, we us emb in space which has sec properties, due vector that are close in the in space a token che have somew similaring or that are somew related.

  

We don't impose this is something that natura course do in training.

  

The e in space can be in the beginning the first versions of transformers relide on pre train Worden.

  

So we had model pre for the worden.

  

Now the inctori is usally coin with But to elements are important because sometimes the way that we seve a sentensies different from the way that it is inde.

  

And this is something that is not always explicit when we use a transformer.

  

In practice, if you will need in the lily to work with text and we will do it because we will look at how to train a fusion model which is condition on a text description.

  

You will use tokenizers that have already been train and will will not work on how to build ts pipeline.

  

And in images we do something simir, at the end of the end of the procedura of what we have is a codbook. And you can think of the book has a vocab.

  

But the vocab in of of tex is vocab of visual words elements that appear in images and can be recombine.

  

For esempio, the mouth the nose of the dog or a patch of green grass can be e word in o code book.

  

And the same canso be apply to tpe of models.

  

For esempio here we have a free dimensional model and in this case the code book is build base on otries, which are a particolar type of 3Ds which is optimize for for the tridimension of properties.

  

This is something that we will see we will come back to thes when we work with.inforce learning.

  

The princip is the same, we have un cold book, we have a compression, we optain a sequence of tokens that we feed to transformer euring the cod we go back to the dimensi space.

  

So we by directipping between the inpput space the compresse in space and the output space which is visual again.

  

Ma il architec rema the Transformer architec remains the s And the order of generation in these type of sequence is imposed an image or a free model doesn't have necessa prefine sequence usually we us order, so we go For images we go from road to raw and for freely moders we will proceed in rose and col.

  

In order to parti our input space into a series of tokens. Similar models have been applied to point clouds again not all these sequence are ordere like text.

  

So if we don't have un or for transformers, we mi to make one up in order to to usare un autoregressive model perchéuse ouse we can genera entire sequence in a sle step con questa type of mod not possibile.

  

E brief want to don want to take to much time, but i about si strategies, I think should be important.

  

In esempio, weamp, we pick the next token acing to the maximum of probabilità.

  

But è una buona strategia for a generative.

  

What we want when we tex us in LLM?

  

We want tex.

  

So we want to generate sample that have hi probability.

  

That And by hi probability, I that the probability of the output of the complete sensi is high.

  

We want to generate sentensies or secies that are semantilly ay correct.

  

We assumed that in our training set all examples were semantilly and sylly correct.

  

So samples that are in correrect should have la probility. Over all probability.

  

But we want our model to be creative in some cases.

  

We don't want our generative model to generate always the same sentence.

  

We want to be able to sle multiple multiple outs.

  

And this is if we want to as cread sport be the model generato always the same senten, be very in some contex. Be very use for if I'm using the LLM to try and sol test per esempio in questo caso I want o model to generato alws the corre But if I want to use a tool for creativity, to be a to sle multiple te.

  

This is property is alsod diversity.

  

This is something that we will see later on.

  

How to the diversity, toure this property.

  

We also want our generation to be relati.

  

We don la generation to take fover.

  

So we to balance properties.

  

What we before is what is chiamato semplice. E at each step, we the optimal, the local optimal choice and the localmace is the with the probabilità .

  

But if we do questo, we have to isses.

  

The first one is variability.

  

If we take aue and we the most probaken, we will always sample the same sequence.

  

And this is not very creative model.

  

So we will have low obility.

  

But we also have another issue.

  

If we simple local optimal the award which is loy optima, we don't necessly have over sequence which is global.y optima.

  

This is what is the w mean by issue.

  

I'm trying to come out win an example.

  

And soaven found the convin relatel shortle.

  

Maybeybe you can help me in Our model will generate a sequence up sort point.

  

Per esempio, weken, let back to the cat set.

  

In that case we are token..

  

Then we the most token and then the most token after the is the.

  

That doesn't necessy mean that the cat set on the mat is a most proble sentence.

  

There could be other scicees that are highest global probability.

  

But loy would requi you to choose to choose a local world which is not the op.ma, li localy optimal one.

  

And the property, for esempioample, we me ad point the If the TheLM get stuck in a text which is amplausible.

  

It has no choice totinue because he can not back track.

  

And change what the model has generated so far .

  

And may result in a sequence of choices that are localy optima but may have a low probability of all.

  

And this is why of reasons why the models generate un true fantases because they loyptimal choices that are not necessass true.

  

This is not only reason why che they can generate un true cencies, but is one operations.

  

And if I come up with the specificample in which these o course, I will but I haven't hd time to atually constructing.

  

What is the alternative?

  

The alternative would be to the over extreme be to do a complete sear. In of genera of pi specific genera generate num possibile attortive sequence.

  

I step of the chain, weample more than one word series of sequen and we the one with the hist global probabilità.

  

This is what is search.

  

And this is a very expsive strategy because we need to generate multiple seques in parallel and then the best one.

  

The alternative is to slidef the search in or to give ourel more options, more local options.

  

Per esempio, instead of ces in the the highest probabilità, we one of the top options at e step.

  

So per esempio, if we go back to to example, we can say that instead of choosing from the highest probabili, we can choose from a top te words.

  

And maybe we can acing to their probabilities.

  

So If we ren process a number of tim, some sentence start with the cat set on.

  

In some cases the LLM will start with the cat set down.

  

In other cases the L&M will promp will select still and sample the word which is lest probable.

  

If we do, if, down, questa probabilità change,se. We will produce from for cice, we will produce a comple comple different senten After down the is to be a probabilità.

  

So maybe if we down, goice to continue the c down on the payment.

  

The cat side down when the before fall in a sleep.

  

In the case, the nex the next step the distribution of the probabilità will be completamente different and we would take a completamente different direction.

  

Or we can still on, but at the second step in of the may And in this case the nex the probabilities of the next world will change maybe instead of inste of Matt a high probability word would be leck the cat set on my leck or the cat set of my legs.

  

Just by choosing from a top, we allo model to makete choice about to produk to produce from the same begin of the sens.

  

Inther way to control the variability is to a parami.

  

The probabilities a generated from softmax. W we use the temperatura, we divide, we divide the logi by the val.

  

If è the soma è un but if we change, if we incree what we do is we ly flat flat the peaks in the of my distribution.

  

So a val of te, generate somax probability that have higher.

  

So we will have few words with very high probabilities.

  

If we use a high value of temperatura , we will redistrib some of the probability to the over words.

  

So we will have more words that have problemble with lower peaks.

  

So a high tempature generate a more divers lead to mores generation, but may lead to incore in generations because incre they hood that we shoes peculiar.

  

Not int in correct word, but unliy word.

  

And if we cy word at each step, we how aumenta in crisi risk of generating e poteny incot solution.

  

So this is a paramieter that you need to know because it is something that you can use when if you happen to work with eleance in your career, you can use thiure to increase to make the model morel last terministic in their operationons.

  

A very high value of val of tempaturel we lead to outputs that may almost be deterministic. More softicated strategies like be search allo the model to exp ever more options, but at the corso of In questo reg autoressive model are very different from o model generative avversari networks varia.

  

In the decoding process is fix generate the output one of the time.

  

So of the generation is fixed, qui in LLM we have poally finding the the best the most output is a search problem.

  

Essally, if we using search, we doing a bad first search in the tree of all possible solutions.

  

So we can we can design different in strategies with different computati cost. Can usaretional parameters to control sin trade between training, much we spending training and how much we spending And we can trade the some of the complexi of training for by improving the model with the more with more a search for a good solution in the probabilità space.

  

But has a cost that can be very high in coputational term.

  

So what we need to to some, what we need to remember about a progressive models is following.

  

For, autoressive models computer ext.

  

After the sentens, the, if you keep track of all the probabilità che, know how the senten that you have generato. .

  

And in princip, you can also know if generated e content is to happen life.

  

This isled that the model has after the generation is finished.

  

So doesn't before, but at the end of the generation process you can compute.

  

The are a very flessible model.

  

As long as you can talk input, you can appli model.

  

But they have a very slow in time because they generate the output on a taken by token bases.

  

And the the that we need to organization, which for text is relati intuitive but for o type of data, soch as images, toction is essentially impose in artificial struc w which does not. In the data. By spliking it a long arbitray arbitrally catlight.

  

And we also need to learn to learn how to transform our image in a cities of tokens.

  

Yes.

  

Yes.

  

By R, yes.

  

In the It is an interestng question.

  

I don't think so.

  

I don't think so, but I'm not completely So here we have a very construction.

  

So in when we Seve them model, we usually se how it opera a training time, w we have a sequence and we want to reconstruc.

  

But when we If the generation is unconditional, we, assuming that we are simply an image without any type of conditioning.

  

At the beginning we have lest information, so we can sampley any type of image.

  

As you get words the center of image, your problem becom more con because Given the start of if you have completed have the image the are many the probability of observing different different elementi in ourd books di crisi.

  

So il problem be more And in princip mi be more probabile that youre pick acciy picking a token which is not very consistente, which is not so consistentet with what preside.

  

And I not sre that that is necessary better at the center of border.

  

But it is possible that words re border you have generally you don't have objects. Most of o images are have a tend to have the object in the center.

  

So the border usually the content the images def.

  

So it is possible that you have more options that make sense to complete and so the of pick a good one in crisi. That mi be true.

  

But I don't have any evidence supported. Principle, yes.

  

In principes, it is possible.

  

There is one paper that was publi if you may a couple of years ago, in which they use moulti step strategy in which the first sample at la reson and then ref predictor the next scale.

  

So instead of predicing the next token prodicted the image at the high of resution.

  

And in of produc they different tokenizzazione strategy in which produce betters to be hone autoressive model can be use for images, but the very comparabili options that us strate. The state of the art diffusion models are more frequenti for images.

  

But is an interest in question.

  

So far the o model that we have a generativeversari networks.

  

So generativeversari networks are comple different perché don't explici model of distribution of the data.

  

So the are design to pro outputs, but the on an implicit noti of distribution.

  

So there is nolici computation of the probability of esempioample.

  

So ifou need to the probability of the sample that you have genera, whing that is something that we don't do, but could be use for for example if you want to understand if an imag is an outli or not, with guns it you can not do it.

  

Ad least not expliciy.

  

But you have fasterence because you generate entire sequence in a single step.

  

Uually guns are not used for text because for text it's very hard to think of a model that doesn't generate one element at the time.

  

Text doesn't have a pre determine, so you need to have a model that can handle sequencees of very different land.

  

Guns will generate the tire data. In one single step, so you know ince the l of the sequen to be genera.

  

So we d norma normalmente guns for images, tridimensional data Sometimes eventabler data, but usally not text.

  

Gun can have a very highhalismo, but the are very un stable training.

  

Ually autoressive model have a more stable training because the train using to find equilibrium bet the discriminator e generator w ssible is but very di to find in pratice.

  

As you can start to see and will populate thi step by step, different famili have differen properties in different which s.

  

Autoreressive models sne for text, gun a good option for forealism if you don't have if can not use more complex models. And which we will see next time.

  

Before moving on, so today I also w to see variation. In a couple of weeks we wil we will finish with the most complicated probability base model and we will move toff which is with my heavy.

  

But before moving va the color I think we deserve e break.

  

So let take a break for 15 minutes.

  

The second type of models that we see today are variation colors.

  

We will see them essally in the context of of imagine generation.

  

We could use it also for our tipe of data model, audio data , not so much text, but we will premi for focus on images.

  

And I anticipate that These type of models, now day is not Not use so much isolation.

  

So it is us a part of o pipes, but by doesn't necessay land to realistike high quality ima generation.

  

But it is the model that that can be useful in our context, so we will look at it.

  

So before we go to the varia co just reminder of der looks like for images.

  

I assume that you recoze the first part of the coder as a convolution del network.

  

So we start from the image.

  

And we use the ciries of convolutional laer to comp the image into law dimensional representation.

  

Sometimes dimensional representation is alsod Bottleneck.

  

And then we use a bunge of convolutier to back in the original space.

  

We don't do all the convolutions at the at the same resution input.

  

We use Max Pulin to reduceze of orded convolutions to reduceze of the to reduce the precize of the feat map in the the ex exis.

  

So the first parte of network reduce the special resution, the second parte of network, in crisi ain to match the input.

  

So in questo case the input and the output are images of the same hi, the same with and the same number of channels.

  

The in de architettura è gen can be use for esempio for seman can be use for demation pe of special, ma if we thin of the coder a under the goal is to able to reconstruct original input, so we will use the same a as input and output of our model.

  

So the same image.

  

Since we doing down uring the first part of the network, we will do anse in the second part of the network. In gener speaking we to be the metrica in the tons.

  

So for e la of pin, we have laer of un orse.

  

And if we use Max Pulin in theamp ph, we will use the same function to upscale the resolution.

  

In this case, we will keep track of the position from the corrisponding P layer.

  

Say suppose that we are here in the first puller.

  

We not only keep track of the maxim, but we al keep track of position of the maximum and duri in the position the in position.

  

Ofourse, what about the the o elements.

  

If we use maum, we don't have information we don't we redu the information, but if we , if we are, we a in in resution of our and we don't have the information or what happens the o element.

  

So we will put it zero.

  

This is what happens we use Max Pulin in order to reduce the size of the network if we use strided convolutions we will also use strided convolutions in thes And we will optain and we will use the convolution laer to learn how to asample the network. The m in efficiente way.

  

There are multiple that we can design architecture, one of the most common architec vari is the. Model the functions very well.

  

Do top contions been between different laers a different resutions.

  

And it called Unit do to the shape wh it is representated looks like the let U. It's a model that was originally design for segmentation, in particolar for segmentation in biomedical images, but has become a very wy used baseline for type of segmentation So This is just a brief if want more information I can you can refer to the slide from lening for vision e multimedia if you access to I will ad you manually.

  

So In the the autocoder framework we have un input which we will call X we have in incoder that compress the information inctor.

  

We call mbing and we call the space from which we the emb late space.

  

We have decoder which produces the a reconstruction of the original image, which we call XF And the decoder will learn to reconstruct the images from the late space to the input space.

  

We have alyen the notice of lated space when we tal about the guns.

  

So the late the type of model is base on the same underline assuntion that the images that we see in pixel space are atually controd by a much a small number factors that we can very.

  

But like generativa the seri networks the goal of coder is to learn how to model.

  

So we will focus on how code images in le and m from v space.

  

So before we move on to the variational family, I want to as ask ours a questions.

  

So, the first question that I ask is not function can use to train out for ima construction.

  

One option could be erro Any wise cross, so any jor of difference between the input and the output any tpe of reconstruction lossould be ok.

  

Normay we use the to last function, which is the means error of mean difference, but we can also use binary which use for when the images, the picco are normalize b zero e And usually we usi type of ype of funtion when the images are binary or biny.

  

For esempio, which is in a gracele and the content the very close to black and very close to white can be effey model to usi binary crotropy.

  

In most case we will use some variation of the means error that me the pix difference between the input and it reconstruction.

  

The second question that I have for you is What is the difference between the de that we have in the transformer and the decoder that we have in auto.

  

We use the same term.

  

Does this mean that this to blocks behave in the same way?

  

Sort of Yes.

  

At the very high level they have the same task restruc input.

  

So at the very high level, yes, they do the same function.

  

But Do they do it in the same way?

  

Call the Ok, so that is one difference.

  

In one case decoder in the transformer uses cross attention. Between the input in the input sequence and and the self attention to model different interaction b different element we just transform from late and space in one step.

  

Una difference we be talking a one of the differen for a past.

  

Il decoder in the Transformer è un autoressive model.

  

H we don't any form of auto regression, we just.

  

We just riconstruentire output.

  

So we use the same term perchéuse the very le fun the same, but are very different. Different e archite different in the way used different also in the way the are trade.

  

The fist question that have for you is suppose that we have our out in coder and suppose that we have us to optimize last function.

  

And now at in what we want to do is simply get of the.

  

Semple from the la space and appder to go back to the input space.

  

And in this case we restrustrutting for random bator.

  

Intuiti, the looks like something that we could do.

  

But in practice, do you think it would work?

  

I understand che this is retorica question because overwise sol the problem and you know that there is at at least halfur of exption why this is no But we have an intuition of whys is not is not possible.

  

Okay, one to say we might choose an incret combination of of late and variable.

  

And if we think about the space of a combination and variable, we mi a combination that is invalid.

  

So you think that's one.

  

I will offre you a country example. Suppose that I want to train color to generate images of faces.ppose that the autoincoder has been train of images of different genders.

  

And suppose that some the autoin has been train to generate on the images of men with glasses.

  

Now the ocoder has never seen a woman with glasses.

  

But do you think if in the little space we try to for the generative model to generate a woman with gsses, do you think it shou be what to do it?

  

To generate combinations that we're not seen a trenitime. Fite.

  

Yes. We may not know which part of la space will provide, but principle we would like our model to be able to do that.

  

Oish a generative models, we can just pick from image as we alrey have.

  

So to an questa question, Una thing that we can do is look at the emb in space that a model that in auto incoder has been train looks like. In this case we have an coder on images from, so di And we have used a projection, per esempio, Disney and bing to visualizza the late in space.

  

So this is the projection, is not late in space.

  

But for the purpose of our for the purpose of our for purpose of our analys we can considera these at the late in space.

  

By the way, is a very simple dataset, so in principle we al train e incoder on just due late invala. And still get result because is such very easy space where we have only 10 digits.

  

And we don't ha particolar statistic feature.

  

So we could princip also train in auto in coder on just.

  

Now If we look at the distribution of the images in the training set, What happs if I sample from a point that is here?

  

I will likey generate an image color here corrisponde to the di zero, so I will like la generate an image of a zero.

  

If I simp point from the cloud here, which corrisponse the di I will like le generato a one.

  

What if I from here?

  

Sorry.

  

I didn't want to. To do, but I think it.

  

So w if I from Here from this point here.

  

We proly get something that garbage, that the has no particolar because in the space the network, the hasn't learned to ma anything in that part of la space.

  

So the la space if is full of holes and gaps.

  

So an't it hasnt got a very good very good structure.

  

We have portions of a late and space which are ex family dance and porons of a late and space that are partilar empty.

  

Iall we would like our variation lout and coder to learn epp on la space that that has a good stru.

  

So that when I generate when samplector from the la space in random way I can generare high quality image.

  

The coverage will not be perfect.

  

We there is still li li that we are not going to cover theentire space, but we want our model our our late and space to have a better structure. To ma va input on all part of the space and to have uniform density on the over late space.

  

And this is not possible because we hat to the network structure la space. We have to is learn to reconstru to ma specific input to an inc and learn to maose input lactor back to the input space.

  

For esempio, we don't tech nork that sir inputs be mappe in the same .

  

And there is nothing in regola construction lost that for is the network to lear these proti.

  

So here come the variational.

  

And idea is that e late attribute for esempioample, in the case of images of faces we can imagine that la and attribute could cover smile, sington, gender, beer, classes, her color and so fort .

  

Each of these lated attribute is not a deterministic value, but it's a distribution.

  

Each imach will have will be associated with a probability of havingin vales in the lett space.

  

So that when weample and when we sample from these probability, we will associate we will generate plausible outputs for that particolar that in space.

  

Notice that the made differences that when the incoder does not produce a single la variable for a single value of la la variable, but it produces a distribution.

  

In our we will see that in our family of variarational and coders in the family that we will will consider Ech element is model using a gace distribution.

  

So the ender will produce in sde of produce in a single value will produce due parameters which are the deviazione. Certa elementi the distribuzioneon will be be very pick.

  

For esempio the network has learned that for this of image of a probability of having ges is very very law. The model learn to maap t image in a por of the la space where there are no glasses, with very high probability.

  

Per esempioample for the bird, in this case the image a bird, quindi The network will produce e distribution for questo image which has support in the area of a elett space where we find burd faces.

  

But not that in this case the with the distribution is larger because the in the case it is true that person has a bird, but the concept of The concept of bird is not a sharp as glasses.

  

You ever have glasses or you don't have glasses.

  

A bird you can have a long bird, you can have A hit of a bird and so the particolar attribute will generate quiders distributions to reflect the uncertain of the incoder when in code in a certain face.

  

And this will will help the network to assign a minim to late and space.

  

Notice that here I assumed that it a the each acceis of the la space is is label by a partila attributo.

  

This is is the restruction che we do exposto.

  

Sir to ciò in genera versarial networks.

  

There is no garanti thatis of the coder corrisponde one.

  

We can riconstruct the structure of laden space exposte after training by changing one parametra the time see appe and di in the image as we doing guns.

  

The a vari of varia coder t to good association between human interpretable concept and la direction, the in let space, but we will not see them today.

  

So this is just to stress that lat and space is not here lable.

  

This is an observation that we do that given variable is acciy associated in training with a with a partilar concept.

  

Variational coder to have the property, but it the are no involve in training.

  

So we the concept stu in training.

  

Okay, so Now let look at how we make it and to optain this goal, we have again to focus on the goal of the .

  

The variation coder learn to approximate the data distribution.

  

The probability of observing e given.

  

In the autoregressive co we have in the autoregressive sol problem bycomposi a a product of simp computations.

  

In the autoressive in the variation, decomposi we use the same noti of use the bre ain, but we say that the probability of obs a given image is depend the probability of obs an image certain la code multipli by the probability of the latin code and some the or integrated over all possible vales of the latin code. Condition probability istamente la funzione che è le by co coder e give un image Sorry, it the fun funtion learned by our deco to ma image.

  

So this is correc, this is the decoder.

  

Okay, Nets.

  

And so this is the probability of serving e gi image starting from certain and variable and this is the probability of oberving la variable. A priori we don't have an information a probability of gi la variablector w So we assume a.

  

We make assuntion about the distribuzione that we want the to have. Normalmente assume that theor is a normal distribuzione.

  

There is a distribution in with mean zero Mid deviation 1.

  

In dimension thi is essented on zero and with standard di one in all direction.

  

So and we w will see example later.

  

So, if we wante to compi queste probabilità, the probabilità of the data distribution, w we need to do for e value of for e image.

  

We need to compiere all varia, compiute all the outputs of the decoder for e valuetecture and some of all possible .

  

Since the number of possible lactor is potentially infinite integra integral computation is said to be intractable. And what would intractable, it means it's impossible to compute i in a reonable time.

  

Even if we assume that the lat and code is discret because we are dealing w compition on a fix number of bits.

  

So it is not true that we have the infinite possible vales.

  

There still too large to computer exactly distribution.

  

So we are going to do is computer in approximation.

  

Computa something that approxite is e distribution and try to maximi or minimi funzione, kno that if we do that we will also optimize or optimize istanction.

  

Notice that when we we say that our go is learn data distribution, we want to comp questa distribution, which is the one produce by our model and we want to make sure that distribon is to the distrib the real data.

  

So we willve to compare with the real obser data in order to determina distribution è corret and generatet upte our parametric model. Is a I che t is impossible to do so we need to find in our w.

  

So the o way is to say is to use the day a here to change in of look at the distribution of ex of the image ex Given la code code code said we look at the probability of late code the image.

  

And we pate mix change this.

  

And we say, ok, inside of look distribution here, let do opposi.

  

And if you apply a hearing, you will see that thesequty holds because the probability of observing Zed given ex multiplid by PX, is the same ability of X, given Zed, multipli probability of In s of computer in probabilità, how we do somet different, we approssimate with cald a varia variation function, which is where the variati gethis name.

  

Which is the parametric function that in in our case is the that produce estimate the probability of gi input.

  

Then we this formula U again the bia hereum.

  

This is the formula that we want to compi in or beble to optimize and we say ok.

  

For all in look at the probabilità we comp probabilità perchévery better è in logarit space.

  

And ts is the lom of the inter of integral function.

  

In the integral function we take the joint probability of a which is the probabilità of sitane e gi input of associa e giv input with a certain leggendctor. Quindi we have associate .

  

And we divide by function. We divide multipli and so t essally would silified to So this function here and function here are thing because we are multipline and divide by number A. If we look at this, this is simply the expected value of this function.

  

The expeted value is formulation of we tak this function and we compiuto questa function for e value of e value che from queste probability distribuzione and we compiute integral over the probabili over all possi val.

  

This is si definition of expeted value when we have a continuous varia.

  

If we had val inde of integral, we would have some. Simply some of all possible values.

  

And this is the over probability the probability that we op the exped val of the pro funtion here by definition.

  

Why do we thi change?

  

Poi dove we a riformula the integral un expeted value?

  

Care because we have are which is called the Genen in quality that say that the logarim of an expected value is always greater than the expected value of log.

  

So we can the lote inside expeted value And this will be a lower bound of the function that we want to optimize.

  

So in op in the function that is intra, we willrive a lound that we can optimize .

  

And if our model is in the better we optimizes, t the closer we get to the distribution that we want to optimize.

  

I don't expect you to remember all the formula, but the important thing that we need to remember is that when we variation in coder we are not compiuting the ex probability of the data perchéuse that è impossible.

  

We are, we are appro approtion.

  

This is the difference between family of functions and the autoregressive model.

  

Now, if we now the logarit is inside expe value, so we can we can take the torm inside the expetation and rete.

  

The logarit of of the numer of the lode of the of the joint probability is equal to the some of log of the conditional probility plus log of the probability of the late.

  

This is because in the logaritmic space a product becomes a some.

  

In the logarit space the division becomes a difference. The lot of function of the numer minus of the denominator.

  

And since the expectati is in line function, we can we can apply the expectation direct on ogni elemento of the.

  

So we opta that the expetati of Q is to the expec of funtion of questa conditional probabilità. Plus the expec of difference, whi is the logarit of the probabilità of minus of variational function. Whi approximate the probabilità of of a certain gi input .

  

Now ts has scatico of formulation, but a very interpretazione.

  

So i me for a minute, we see that a very nice and intuitive interpretation in that relate function in the late and space.

  

So to under why we will focus first on the second term the expetati This is the expetation of the difference of the difference of logarit.

  

So this is the same this is min the extation of logari. We have Q of data at the numer and the in our pri distribuzione in the numer.

  

This, I don't know if you know you remember, is the the coolback libergen between our function Q Q of teta and our our por in space.

  

The libergen and you can see This is the formula of thebike libergence between to distribution PNQ and you can see that You can see that in our case P is corrisponde to Q and Qspon to distribuzione of a pri. Is in equivalence that that you can optain if you express the the expectation as an integral again.

  

This cool by clig e urgence is a major of distan between to distribution.

  

It is not a distan t distan function because it is not simmetric.

  

But it approximate, howell our function m function Q. In particolar, if we have due ga functions P andQ, the libera egence is the the integral over difference over questa funtion, which o by dividing bQ.

  

So if is high and Q is low, questa sction will be very rech very very hi pea .

  

If is low, if zero alf zero.

  

And if P small and Q is high This function will become negative because it's loverete of a number which è last zero. One.

  

So if you distanzed by calcola the logarit of of the division of P by Q and then some all the possible vales in between.

  

If PNQ are descri, we do the but in of computing the integral we will number so we can.ch easer to to The cool backlever the e urgen is optimize if the two functions If the due funzioni to coinside and incre as an incre as the two functions as the difference bet the t functions in crisi.

  

In particolare, in the egen interpretation, we distinguis between the probabilità Q which is our reference e the probabilità probabili distrib P w which we want to match to reference probabilità.

  

So if we questa reinterpretation, questa formula tell us that to do is optimize make the distribution the output of the variational incoder simir to the distribuzione of the pri in the la space.

  

La distribuzione of pri in our is o distribuzione è una distribuzione that we know we fix. The space is the struttura of our creation so we can chate make sense So if we use reinterpretation, the is simply the some of the tute of tutor.

  

One term is very construzione term.

  

It incorag to faiful rever fromampample e in.

  

So this is equivalente to the mean in a And the avverturm is a a la regurization torm that tens to push the encoder the standard gace.

  

This is going to be possibile to do for the perché un model So the ender try to cher simir a samp in late and space, but the regularzer to pus far repart.

  

And wit due terms we can find.

  

So if we go back at o in which we to and to learn the datad by from due varia.

  

If use on libera construction lost, we have latin space that not very move.

  

It has a lot of holes and it has a lot of regions that are very very very tight together.

  

If we use only the calegence, so if use only the regolarizzazione term, all the samp from all the classes will be mappe to distribution and in the distribution is simply a ball of point.

  

So space has no stru .

  

All the probability ofted space will depend.ally, will be the same for all samples and we'll be ecean prior.

  

The some of thesses, the combination the losss will do something in between. Very construzione lo will push the network to words e more stru late and space.

  

Thegen will push the nector words spreading the point of a given class on a wder area.

  

And we op elett we optain a elett space that has smooth cristics.

  

Here, it not so easy to find holes, so it will be much more proble. That when we sample from late and space, we will generate vald semp .

  

And we had to do a lot of must to understand a libit of m not a lot.

  

There are the variati can can be much più complicate but in rele case we op result.

  

So thi is what we into.

  

This is reas why we use varati il coder and not a standard the coder, chiee late and space and the properties of the late space.

  

In practice we fix some of the properties of o functions.

  

So normalmente, when we work with tional families, we to use Gacean beuse the sit.

  

So w we do is both and coder and the decoder to use ga distribution for late space.

  

So for e image instead of semp a single value generato a distribution with a certain me e una certa standard deviation.

  

The me wil determina the position in the space of that sle.

  

The standard diviation will determina how large is the area of the la space in which that type of samples are going to be place.

  

So very a large standard deviation will spread the type of input of lar area over la space e small standard deviation will collapse that type of simlar inputs to a ver very small area of that la space.

  

When we use the coder, the produce queste val.

  

Poi base on the stand diviazione, we one che.

  

Ho b sele bas the probabilità.

  

Vec che have hi probability wil beample with have loro probabilità.

  

There is one problem con questa struture. That here we have a non deterministic compon.

  

Ech time we in from the ima we op the same distribuzione.

  

But la distribuzione is not.

  

La distribution is una funzione over all possic and the decoder need one lactor input.

  

So we need to produce produce one specifi input che è going to be different ever we run incoder decoder.

  

And the questionecomes come do do propagazione somet that ch that is non determin, back propagate to semplice?

  

The ans is we don't. Not to propagate esempio.

  

So we need to to what caldametration trick.

  

Instead of the ender model produce the standard deviation, but in of us il random which samp from the stiution. Random input that samp noise from normal distribution with mean zero and vari And we moltipli queste noe to the standard deviation and we we subte our la random no with a deterministic node the takes input a random vecture.

  

But is molto simp to use because This is un input, so is outside of computation gra and when we generate for train genera atta to ima e random. Is the decoder to generato to speci specific value of.

  

So we move non deterministic process in of inside the computati move to data Ma in the data we have a lot of process that are non determin.

  

Per esempio, we use non determin aumentazione.

  

And ts is just random che we to generato when the data.

  

This is ver to do.

  

And it. We use we use la space with the riperametrizzazione trick, ever becom ey to .

  

The first parte of the very construzione.

  

So I the m y can look it online or you can trust me if you do, if you calcolate very construction loss when P is ga , optain exacly mean.

  

So that is verystru loss is same as in the standard out.

  

The leg è una funzione che we can quindi we can in And the random è semplice by the data. Questa minor we can implemen varia by implementi under and ching e ad in addi input.

  

Pretty pretty much as we do.

  

So everything looks nice, but why are we not us variation of the co?

  

The problem are essential problems. The main one is that the output of variation coders is usally very.

  

And veras is that the end of the day we a produ a us a gace distribution, which is a very simple distribution.

  

So non matter how many peters we put in the incodere in the decoder the proties of the function produce samples because the the network wil try to to avge sim samp.

  

And forgi in space will produce un avge in e restruction of t parte space.

  

And reconstruction is by definition reconstruction.

  

The second problem is that if the decoder is very poul, sometimes just i can learn to generare out without using the la code starting from a random.

  

So in that cas all the la space becomes indistinguis from reprior for all the images and all thetector will generate essally the same images. We lose the destruction of late space.

  

This is not going to be problem perchéuse were not going to train variation.

  

Souse them, but were not going to's not going to be our ojetive.

  

There are some we have some possible solutions una solution to the problem of bloss is to use kiarchi variation. Which is something that we will not see, but's useful to know they exist. Problem of la space collapse, we can use quanti co and this is shing che we go to see in a minute and we will c for the day.

  

One thing that we need to understand is that the families of models to not exist in isolation.

  

There are many cases in which we may want to mix some match different strategies.

  

For esempioample, this is not very common model at the moment but the are still uses for If we want to use variation coder because we want to take adtage of structure of late space to in space with a good stru can be very in certa situa And the struttura of space of variation better struture that those of guns.

  

But at the same time we want our input to be lep and a lit more realistic, w can do is mix match e variation in coder wi gun.

  

So we use the same con train di variation coder with thebo function.

  

Buen we had al theput of the discriminator to help crisi the realismom the phrealim of the output.

  

So this is al something that we can do.

  

The other thing that we can do is work with quantizesions of the embd in space.

  

Quindi in of us a in space, we discreti and we pus all them by incture to be one specifi element of grid.

  

There are to do that we need to be with creative with the agredien because we need to be able to do b propagation, questa spite ha space.

  

But is sething t can do that are if you look into the paper, we can look at the origin..

  

So in questo caso, the difference been the standard e the quanti è in stru di la spa the point are colla the corner of questo.

  

And in space becom more to codebook definite number of possible token.

  

Int, questape of type of model can use to generato codebook for autoressive models.

  

So is can mix match. La variation coder to produce the e for the pches and use the autoressive model to to work the pches.

  

So if we go back to Let's see if I can show you.

  

Okay.

  

Per esempio, if we go back to autoressive transformer e variazione in coder can sal the problem of in cod our p and dem back to pix space. The varia quanti variati coder to generate o codebook for the images and we use the caldbook to regenerate the train the autoregressive transformer.

  

The transformer will generate tok from the codebook and the variation variational decoderforma back in the pixel space. Variation coders are not models in isolation, but the sometimes they are sometimes us a pre proce processing for o tipe of generative models.

  

In auto in t case auto aggressive models.

  

Ey that it.

  

So we have type of model our box.

  

The main adtage of the variation coder is in the model of space, quindi we can lear a good struture of late space. Space is more interpretable.

  

La variation coder like the generative avversari network has fasterence perchéuse we do inference in a single step. Don't sk by tok. The inference è fast.

  

The a very good if o goal is to lear in space.

  

So o goal is le in e how to comp to that for op, very good If to generate imag, there not very good the will generate images. Are tech that to problem by working on images in hierarchion, fashion from la resolution to high resolution.

  

But now days we have better models a chie that going to use variation co .

  

Next time we going to see normalizzing flow, we tal normali and we will understand diffusion model take on generalizzazione.

  

We going to see energy base model. We going to focus on to families and then we will have seen all the possible.

  

Ingredience that you can use to to build applications I will stop the recording and I will see you 

  
