
---
## Transcript


Okay.

  

I think it stated recording. Come back everyone.

  

Today w are going to start late and diffusion models.

  

So this is going to be one of the core topics of these course.

  

On which we going to also have o home work.

  

And I'm particolar excited about this w work because we will have been a to divise e work where will be able to trainte in diffusion model. Diffusion model from scratch. Which is particolar challen beuse are norma very large model that a impossible to train without indus reces.

  

So youre going to train a very, very down scale version of lated diffusion model, but I think it's going to be very halful to understand how to put together all all the blocks.

  

Dot worry, we not going to ask you to imple from scratch are libries that can And will our on the hugging lib.

  

So the implementation on your side sher the gun la but I think it's going to be super super healful and very very greatful for for our teach sytant Pietro for Putin the work into craf in these lab, which I think it's going to be super healful.

  

The downside of working with very small model is that we are not going to be a to generate the typ images in your lese will not generate high hi resution now some look a with gry, but that's just a projector in the paper of coursey skild up version from the paper from Meta so the look. It, but there's just the projector.

  

So today we are going to introduce the models that made the type of hi resution high fidelity, high controbility, high quality sythesis possible.

  

We are not going to start with late and diffusion model first step is going to be the dipis probabilistic model di DPM or diffusion model forre short.

  

The are 7 that we can model the type of problem, soday we going to look at questayplem from a variational perspective.

  

So we will reuse some of the bols and the machiney and the concept that we introduce with with with variational coders to understand how to work with t type of model.

  

The under concept is very very simple.

  

So the beauty of model is that can very very complex, but of they the final result is an extrem simple model.

  

Which is base on processes, one is called forward diffusion and the over is called reverse nois.

  

In the forard diffusion, we doing is int of noise at the time to the image. You can see five steps, but it typical typical late in diffusion model can have up to 1,000 step.

  

So you need to think that at each step we're ad time bit of noise to the image.

  

Until we get pull an image which is coprised only of noise.

  

In the reverse nois, we want to learn how to generate back the original imamage by Eddin, by removing a beat of noise at the time.

  

A each step we take the corret image and we predict next one the noise is going to be slight decreed. Time, by learning the rese no in process in we going to be a to create image starting from pure noise.

  

So we just an image that is of random pixles and graduy let an image emerge from these process.

  

They calle diffusion moders because there a para with the physical process of the diffusion of a gest of gu particles in a room.

  

So that is why they call Fusion models.

  

We're going to dedicate to lec on the topic.

  

Today we're going to see basics and then After the break we going to see sli comple more complex.

  

Versions of the model and how to increase controllability.

  

Today we're going to learn how process works and how we can imple.

  

So we going to start with a little bit oftation.

  

In the process we call the original image X of zero.

  

And I teach time step T we are ad in a libit of noise until we get to XL or XXT in the end.

  

In these process we are breadling the noise over steps.

  

We can use L or T and sometimes we use T or e or I in thetation.

  

I think I normay time to use stands for time, so it puts more ansaties on the concept of evolution as an evolution in time. In a cases overtex use I to put more anfas on the sequence.

  

So this is the sequence of images.

  

Qu steps, so we decide how many steps we going to take.

  

This is a parameter of the process.

  

And the that we going to ad as a gassion distribution.

  

We're always going to work with gassion distributions because they make They make essentially the mhematics simpler to work with in the end.

  

A each step we have a fward process. Which is the probability, which is model as conditional probability of observing a certain image giving the image at the previo step. In thile this is the transition, probability models transition from from to X and at the gener tp we are going to model the transition from And the last step is going to be the transition from Tus to lar to capital T which is the final step.

  

And we assume that in the final step we're going to have essentially we're going to lose any trace of the original of the original image of the final step is going to be pure noise.

  

We assume that the per step is no.

  

So we going to semplice of from distribution, which sense for a normal disution or distribution.

  

And the av of the me of the distribution is essenti a perturb version of the original of the image at the preus step.

  

And the very of the distribution is going only to depend on the factor here.

  

So w happ over time is that we're going to graduy corrept to the image by multipte with the number whi ch is lower than one.

  

And this will eventually lead our image our mean to zero.

  

And we use And the standard deviation is going to be incre pushd to wards the identity metric.

  

So we going to going to essally sample from a ga distribution with zero avverage and Sunder deviation one.

  

So here of the ki, the key step is that the mean?

  

The mean depend of the previous image, the vari does not depend the previus image, but only depends on on this parmieter beta.

  

If we don't want to work with gas distribution or sle with ga distribution, we going to do is apply our ametration trick whiready from varaticoder and express the value the image at the step T as a combination of the image of the step te minus one multiplid by effector alpha plus some random noise which è sempampled from a standard gation distribution, multip by effctor of beta.

  

Alfa e beta are combination of each over, so Alpha is actually one minus beta. And Alfa e beta are number that are going to be change according to the step at which we are.

  

We assumed that a each step we we sample some noise from distribution and we assume that all the noci are going to be inpendent identilly distributed.

  

So aach time we going to sle in new and new noise.

  

And the new noise is going to be different or sepad or related from the steps.

  

Since we a us the trick from the varia noise here is going to be un inut to the model.

  

Don't about how going to do that beuse we will see in deta later just just not from now that this is actually an input of the model.

  

And actually we have an additional input for ech time step. E time step we have due inputs one which is the image at the preview time step and the one which is the nore going to.

  

So If don't want to think about how to from if you't want to think about the probabili perspective, think of the process are something very sile w at e step generate an ima image we to the cort one.

  

And this is going to graduy corrept the signal until we get only no.

  

And don't we're not only ad in the noise, but we aally computing in ege between the waited everage between the image at the primo step and noise.

  

So the forward process is fixed.

  

There's nothing to be learn, there are no parameters. Is just It is just a met of generating some noise and aded to the image.

  

That's it.

  

What we want to learn is verse process.

  

So we cal reverse process, the function P with parameters, whis transition from from the generic time step T to the previ time step T minus one.

  

This is the rese function reverse process sometimes it also called the reverse transition kernel has been called in various ways.

  

Our goal essentially, our oje is to learn disftion.

  

And th at the inference when we acally use the model, we not going to re not going to care about before process anymore.

  

We just going to use very ver process at the inf.

  

Variati out inders and noise in auto in coders have certain pro have certain properties in common.

  

But the different.

  

In in inva, if you remember, we have un image, we compressi in the let space uscoder, wecompressi in the original space using the decoder and both the ender and the decoder are trainable.

  

And we train us us the miror between the input image and very contracted image.

  

We have an explicit and space. We can also man impulate.

  

In the denoise in co the encoder is fixed, only the decoder is trainable.

  

So you can ima as a sort of variation coder in which queste parti and we train only, but we don't have explicit le space.

  

The la space is compose of multiple images that we don't necess.

  

In the step we a generati in them, but in the rese step we don't know what the nois images sh look like and our goal is to rever. Them.

  

We't looked at har variational, but it isble to show that the process is a ker variational coder with fix. Not going to do that because it's not so important for ours.

  

So ourday understand why la diffusi working in certa way and why they have nice protice.

  

So we not going to see all the behind the varia mod complex, we not going to see of but only going to see some of the some of thehematics which is to under the most important properties.

  

But I the end of the slide, some tex books were isted you can look at the at the whole animation.

  

So the first thing that we want to do is get essy read of there process.

  

Because in the process, if we take the for process , we have to ad the noise one step of the time.

  

And if we have time steps, we would have to repeat the nois operation .

  

If we do it i going to take a lot of time. At for the for process , what we like to do is be a to diret the nois image at the generic time wt having to do it incrementaly but do it in a single past.

  

This is lu possibile if we assume that the transition, the forw transition a distribution, perché distribuzione ha many matemal properties make it easier to work with.

  

So if we consid want to compiute the transition been the last image, questo is actually last image and the first image, This is actually ilduct of all the transitions in between.

  

This is going to be a product of all the transition from from one to tw, from 2, from free, to four until we get to capital T. If we assume that the ga distribution the knel has distribution, if we assume that our transition a mean which depends on the image at the pre timep and the standard deviation.

  

We can demo we not going to do it, but to do it that the entire transition becom a single ga distribution and the of the parameter of that ga distribution can be computed exactly. No type.

  

No's a Dose parameters the me of the queste distribution complose for, close for me that we have an antical formula that we can apply.

  

So we don't have to do all the time steps.

  

And the close form again gace with the mean gi by the term and stand di.

  

Notice that the mean here only depend on is a clean sample, original image, multip by effector alpha, which is simply a product of all the intermedia of all the intermediad coefficient.

  

So instead of simbly the noise, if we know the coefficience, we can simply multiply the coeffici and applide and us it to generate the final the final image.

  

And a simular thing we can say for the standard deviation, the standard deviation is going to be a combination of the standard devia of e individual transition according to the formula .

  

You don't have to remember questa formula exatly what I just want to enfasize is that sometimes will see alpha, sometimes will see be, but is just for the convenienza oftation.

  

Alpha is actuall one minus calcolated from beta bason this formula. Wou see alpha, wheou see beta, remember that aziende we will only have beta. And Alp will be compute as a function of beta. Which funtion don't really care is just to remember that we have only oney parameters. Only one sit of hyper parameters. Ant this is the general formula but to underand we be better let w happen if we appli for the firste steps and then you can generalize questo to an arbo number of steps .

  

The exped value of distribution is simp me.

  

So if we compi the expe value of the transition been the first image and the second image. We opta the expe value is the me of the multip Sorry, the expe value of the distribution is the me.

  

If computer the expeted value of thi conditional distribution, we can this is the s of the mean of X multip by the parameter alp plus the expe value of the noise that we multip by the standardviation of the multip standard of the of the original ga distribution.

  

The expected value of the no zero perché the no zero av.

  

So the no centra zero quindi So if we the avverage of all the no we going to upin zero.

  

W we sw the images, we a smages in RGB val, but in the formulation going to be val between tpiicay minus one and 1.

  

And this is equivalente to say thatped value of the transition between X0 e1 è multip by Alpha 1.

  

If we re for the for the second transition, la transition between zero e zero eX2, we going to sa transition, the expeted value of X1 gi zero multip by Alfa 2 plus expec value of the noise that we di multip by the standard deviation. The me or the val zero t is going to be alp 2 multipli by term which is Alpha 1,ero.

  

And we can re resive formulation for and so until we get the general formulation that for a generic time T Alpha T is simply going to be a product ofvolve vales of Alpha up to that point invece.

  

This is the close for formulation, so this is reminder a close for formulation.

  

And the semplice process can ain be retten as the some of the avverage of image a time zero moltip by factor multip by disco efficiente, plus ano coefficiente multipli by noise.

  

U againzation trick.

  

Why do we care about going th formulation?

  

The ni that the first take point is that if we want to of T we don't need to sle.

  

We don't need to iteray apply no.

  

If we know the original image, we can simply generate and if we know coefficiente we can simply efficiente, generate some noise and adt to the original image.

  

And we can direc from any step.

  

So if we want to if we want to work on the transition from step we can simp rateis image at step If you want to work on the transition between time 10 and time 11 we can simply estimate nois image at time step 10.

  

And we can do it directly without without needing to go through the each step of the forward process.

  

Disco efficiente alp depend on the coefficiente acing to the formulation on the coefficiente beta.

  

We call coefficiente beta e le noe coefficiente or noise schedule.

  

So what we going to do is generato for e step in the diffusion step. We repres the diffusi step normalize one.

  

Soad of from one is going to be from zero to one by dividing with step e stepin, we going to generate value of beta acording to a schedule that we define.

  

So we going to sele a schedule e genera a line sequ or in non line sequence of the of the pmeters beta and we going to use the paramieters beta to generate the noise sample at ever step we want.

  

The original the original original paper use the line linear formulation for beta which cuve if you app a formula, you will pave for the alpha coefficiente.

  

And this is the Alpha This is the coefficientes coefficien here Alpha with the bar with the bar on top.

  

So the coefficiente alp has these curve if we apply a line schedule for of the coefficient beta.

  

This is not was the original formulation in the original diffusion paper that was publis0.

  

It is not a very good schedule because if you look at what happens The original image the almost intly and by the time we get to mid way in our iterative process.

  

The image is al alt noe.

  

Pretty step a wasted in a regi of the diffusion process where the images are very very no.

  

So we going to learn a lot about the setics of the image.

  

In1 un other type of schedule was suggeested, using e using a coin schedule for beta, which gives you here for the alp alpha coefficient.

  

If you use this curve, your image is going to the.

  

It not going to the great as fast di urin the for process. Per prett much all of the sequence we going to keep going to have an ige which has a strong compont of original image plus noise.

  

And this is he in order to learn a better transition.

  

Una thing that I did't menti but we need to ep mind is that diffusion model al base on the idea that the visual content must be graduy.

  

They work because we take step and we had only a little bit of noise at the time.

  

If we take large steps and we had a lot of noise in a single step, going to be much hder to learn the original function to lense funtion.

  

So our model is not going to be a. Elemento of the processes th we must noe a live time and not the great image so fast in theti steps which makes learning much hder because we need to reverse transition we need to reverse a degdationcess which is much more evident in and we lose a lot of we lose a lot of the original sign both in the input, but also in the invigredient.

  

So what we need to do in or to train our model is to determina sequen.

  

Qu sequence is fix or bpend on the number steps.

  

The more steps we take So is a continuo curve, but we not going to increas the diffusion stepusy.

  

So we will take some steps along this core.

  

And if we take 10 steps we're going to sile here, here, here, here here if we take 100 step we're going to sle on questo con much.

  

And if we take samples we going to have a very fine grain samp of questo The importanthing is that each element is each coefficient beta is a number between zero and one If we multip numbers between zero e one we o pain a number which still beteen zero e one So what happens is that as the number as T to infinity coefficiente here 10 to zero and coefficiente here 10 to one When we get to the end of the diffusion sequence, if diffusion sequen èffici long, quindi if is sufficiente large, we eventualmente optain an image whi is pure noise.

  

If we don't sample for a sufficiente number steps, we will still see some of the original image in our diffusion.

  

And we don want that because in time we want our diffusion model to able to evo to sort of evo image out of out of pure noise.

  

So we need our for process to get to level.

  

So take un point number t, we need a sequence of coefficience beta which is going to be our Noise schettle in order to train our late and diffusion model.

  

Everything okay so far If you have questions rate your hand.

  

Now, we have to to learn very fusion the reverse process.

  

So assume that there is a transition Q, which is the true transition, which we don't know. That we have a neural network that approximate questa transition with parameters eter.

  

We want to to approximate the true transtion.

  

So ideall what we like to do is compiuto the Cgen beteen the un transition and the transition and maximizor, minimi distan funzione that we compiutexite thenown resition. Us the libertà perché are probabili quindi we need which can opera in in space.

  

And dis one of possibili distanze libertà.

  

Long story short the function is intracble.

  

It means that we cannot compute because requi to computer the expetation over all possible images, which is impossible.

  

But we can show that we can make it attra by conditioning on a clean data sample, quindi by ad by Eddin e clean data sample here in in the unwn true transition and of course in the approximation.

  

This is no necessa equivalente in terms of produc the same result, but equivalente in the sense that if we opmi function, we can strate that we will alsopmi function. We are can it.

  

And the good is that the formulation, if we use formulation, the expecom stru and we can al a close for antico solution that we can actually op .

  

We not going to see all the steps, so we're not going to demonstrate exactly why, but It is good to remember that we need to condition on the clean sample in order to make it attractable.

  

So we know that why is clean sample is introduused.

  

Ain, we going to assume that the transition is because formulation are more easy to work withhelly.

  

In this case the transition is between T and T minus one.

  

So this is not a mistake is actuallysesition.

  

So we starting from the image at step T and we're trying to predict what the image at the primo step would have look like.

  

And at the end of the sequence we get back from XT to ex, which is the clean sample.

  

So our goal learn transition so we can go back to the original sample.

  

These the ga distribution is parametrized by due parameters, the mean and the stunder deviation.

  

And in this case, we assume that we have we have a parametric mean.

  

So our mean is computed by a parametric function.

  

And it is a function of the image at the time step time stepend we look at the se and the time step.

  

So it is a function tkes due inputs and produces and mean.

  

Notice that here the input is an ima the output is alsoy.

  

So it is essally.

  

It is way say the me is the ima. They de image is the mean of the ga distribution.

  

And the standard deviation is does depend on the input, so we can assume we can assumeume that it is fixed.

  

If we can assume that ix, we don't need to comp us the neural network.

  

So our neural network in variationural network predi both e the stand deviazione.

  

In the no in col network on predic e weget the standard we assume that the standard only depend on the time step.

  

So will be larger lo dependen or where we are in the which time that we are in the reverse process.

  

So the first questi that we need to to bridge t formulation with something we can actually optimize is which kind of funtion, which kind of architecture can take input ige and produce as output in o image.

  

What do you think?

  

Which kind of architectura could it?

  

The variational incoder is takes input the image and try to restruck original image.

  

We want an architecture che takes input in image and produces output ano image, which is notss necessay the same or to be the same.

  

So we need tock to sething more gen deco or which kind of architettura ho visto last time, which particolar type dicoder decoder ho we se to piak, yes.

  

If I tell you semantic sementation, w is a good architecture for semantic sementation?

  

The Unit.

  

So what we going to do is ust.

  

So it is very complicated story with a very simple ans just take a unt, the image and produces output and the noise image. Which is why it is calle the noise in auto in.

  

It is not a complete inder perchéuse in in try to predict back the original image.

  

We try to predict the original image minus the no.

  

So we going to to produce a slight less noise version of the original image.

  

This is not the main difference between the standard Unite and the.

  

There are number of difference between the Unite that we have inantistimentation and the Unit that is use in una diffusion model.

  

Last difference is that qui, the me is a function of XTNT.

  

So we need to mo modificare our architecture to take as input also step T. And we do that by using a time representation, usy so sort of cod, like sus cod. To because is numberally, an integra.

  

So we want to converti into representation that makes it easer to learn with a contin resentation.

  

So we use sort of cod and we use a few traina laers and then give un editional input to all the blocks in the Unit.

  

If you rell the Unit has a sever blocks, some which reduce the ze of the feature map and some of which absample to the origin original resution.

  

Each of the blocks will take as input take the input feats and the output of the fully conned.

  

So in the Unit k step we are work and can ap the function perché going to have to different function di dove we are in the process.

  

Here for esempioample, the image of structure of the imag is there.

  

So need to learn to rever the fine di at the beginning of the process where the image is pure noise, the noise in auto incoder produce the the global struc.

  

So the function that the network a lot during the dipende on the value of T. So it's not the transition that we learn is not fixed, but depends on where we are at.

  

Why do we use Unite?

  

Unite as essy recabili.ty of doing multiscale feature fusion, why does it do it because we have skip connections. Usion model must reconstruc both the fine rain detas, but also of global structure.

  

So it need to work at multiple scas.

  

And Unite works well.

  

It also respect the special structure, but is not the only architecture that we can use.

  

There are also for example vari of late diffusion model the use transformers as incoder the coder.

  

We will study the architecture of stable diffusion, which is one of the first type of diffusion models that has been that was published.

  

And we were going to use the Unit.

  

The over thing that we do is o modification che we do is in the botle. We going to ad a selfon laer that opera at the low resution. The use of salva attention here allow to have better global coherence in the image. Are t differences bween the standard unit and the Unite that we use the use to computer very transition.

  

So we are almost there We need to generate for ech we going to genera noise that we will use to generate our target. And we train the Unite to reverse the targetet.

  

So we have all the building block really for velo perchéuse we don't know w going to use to train the Unit in orther learn pece reverse transition.

  

So to understand that again recall that these reverse transition is gace and that when we when we learn rese transition we wanted to be as possible to the unnown transition that depends on inputs image the noisample at time T and clean sample.

  

So our function takes a imput both.

  

We can show it is possible to show that approximation actually down to estima The erro b the me w the output of and the output of the of the unk function we don't know funtion, but we know the output perchéuse we have forward process that generate fenoci imag.es.

  

So we can compiute the nois image a time at the corret time and we candicte and to compi the difference and try to rese sanction will be learned proly when means to zero.

  

There is also a constant but when we have the constant a depend our, so we can remove it from the computation.

  

This lost is app single to a single clean sample.

  

So to train the model we are going to the expetation over o data distribution, whichly which in pratical terms me that going to wige. Is going to be o expe o the train distribuzione won't know we can approximate by a suffici lar train zero is an image in our training set e we going to function for many images and computer ege us mini. Incent as we would train a standard model.

  

So one of the ad of late diffusion model is that we using erro for the approtion. Like the variation in coder train è very. In we had the problem of equilibrium between the generator discriminator H we ha me.

  

So this is very very very sile.

  

Quindi in prace to compi lass, we have due options.

  

Option number one is to predict they denoise image a step and compiute the difference with clean .

  

This is one possibili.

  

In cas possibilità, the Unite predic noise image and we want noise ima to be a possible to the clean one to be original one.

  

Or we can show that a simir thing can be optain by using the unite to predict noise that is a during training . And learn to estimate nois and to generate the clean image we sob noise from the noise image. In of genera dire noe image we generate noise and we sub from image until we get to king one.

  

In practice we use the option because we find it imperiy to be the best option.

  

It's the option that work best for a number of reason.

  

The one of the reason is that noe is sle from a standard gation distribution.

  

So noise is actu value between tpica between minus one and So we don't risk that function is going to be essally bounded.

  

The risk that function exp vaniss is low.

  

And so the rest that we have vanish or exploding rayens also is reduused.

  

So this is one of reas why questa formulation work.

  

There number of intermi passages to go from from here number ofl passages If are interested a book in the at the end of the lide that you can conult.

  

If you are satisfied with the reason Sily take home the good news that is veryma very complexl function a very sile me lo.

  

So we don't need to do anything or complicated.

  

But we can garantire and the ad of having matemal formulation is that we can garantire that this process conges and we can garantire that if we find if we minima the stion, we going to find the optima transition. 's importante to have thil devation be know that the way of training is optima As long as we assumed that everything has ation extribution, of course. Since the noise we generate noise we can generated with any distribution that we want.

  

So this is not ts is a valda assumption because we control the noise in process.

  

So we can we can choose we ever a schedule and we ever distribution work spest.

  

So to conclude.

  

And then we are going to I think a break in a short time.

  

Let's see how the training lops train loop and the inference loop look like.

  

These are the original training loop from the original paper of the dep nois in out incoders.

  

This is like in English reformulation.

  

I spell out for you the train algori.

  

So w we going to do is take of images, for e.

  

We sle noise.

  

So we noise in the in a simir way what you did with the the gun, but with difference the no qui is not, but it is a square perché è un image.

  

So is not a noise oc, it is actually nois version of the image.

  

So the no that we has same size of the original image.

  

But of the vales are going to be sample from random noise.

  

Then we going to sle a time for e image. We don have to don't have to before process one step the time. Don've to a compute all steps for e image in the training match. Uniform.

  

One time we going to train the transition from to sample we going to train the transition from 12 to 13. One time we going to train the transition from and1.

  

And of the day after when we riach convergen we are going to train on all possible time steps.

  

But for each image which was only one time step.

  

So for each image we sele one time step.

  

So that in a given batch we can have multiple images a different time steps.

  

And we incree the diversity of the mini batch.

  

Once we have we can compiute the noise from We can nois and we can adusti the base on the time step, so we're going to just noise and generate acording to notu and we going to use our unite to predict these noise and compiute the the between the predict noise and the noise that we generated at time step free.

  

Then we compute loss and we update regredients.

  

Ad time le forget a the for momento.

  

We going to do the opposiosizione.

  

We start from brandom noise to the diffusion model and at e of thein we remove some of noise.

  

So we predict noise, we sud and we use the new image as input to noise in and we reop until we the number of the noise in step. The number of steps in the chain is the same, as the number of the noise in step andpend on our noe schedule.

  

So if we have no schedule with a coefficien, we're going to do to repe one time.

  

And that's it basicay.

  

That's the whole concept of the diffusion modern.

  

So It is a very simple to implement, but a very powerful framework, which is why most state of the art models, not all of them, but most state of the art models as we know are model.

  

I'm say as we know because for some some comcial models we don't know the actu architec.

  

Or the architecture of the first of some iterations, but then they stop they stop disclosing the full architettura, so we can make some assumptions, but we don't really know the architecture.

  

Beh, made the advantage as we will see after the break these processes painful is slow.

  

So if we want to generate an image, we have to apply for step.

  

So i's very a complex model opera on a poten high resutionput that generate asponder hi resution output and cannot be parali.

  

So we can not compi multiple multiple steps in para perché e step dep on the pri quindi not possible to paralize the computation.

  

But we will not see today that the are o formulation of the variational out incoder, of the diffusion model that allow to speed up eill step us more effici, we not going to see today, but we can anticipate that we can do s We can do something better, but at the state of the art still parall in open problem how to do efficiently.

  

In everthing that I have to mention before we take a break is that the type of lost and the type formulation that I' is roted invariation perspective.

  

So we try to frame the diffusion model using the same tools and the same for the same formulations that we used for the variational out in coder.

  

We have't dimonte it, but it is possible to do that the lost that we sw that we for the diffusion model can be a equivalente of the for coder.

  

So's approssimation of the that acally function we actually want to optimize.

  

So is one way of themonstrating that lost work is by going through is by us formulation, we going to do it, but.

  

The arepretati of the model that count from and we will see thefter the break. Formula have different me, but in the end we get to the same to a very simir architecture that in practice works works in very simir way.

  

If are questions, I think we can take a break and hop today I wante to finish with ear because I want to take the opportunity in the last 15 minutes or so to presen some of the tes that we have on the particolar model.

  

So I will U abit of time tod of class to show us some possible tses, which also go response some. Possible applications of this modens.

  

One question that came Duty in the break, which is actually.

  

I think relevant and interesting for everyone let me close this. Is what kind of image is going to be This is a best second.

  

What kind of image is going to be generated, At the after the training process and one important thing that I completely for to man is that in process is not conditional.

  

So wi process we have no control over what kind of images is going to be generated.

  

If we si different noise image, we will oin a different image.

  

So pot we have infinite number of an infinite number of noise images, so we can optain an infinite number of different images but the generation per sé is unconditional, so we have no contro over which image will be generated.

  

The content will depend on the dataset that we train on.

  

So in the next labou going to on the filer spoiler.

  

This is s spoiler.

  

Sore going optain imas.

  

If you train imag, you're going to optain of a.

  

If you train on the internet, you can poten any type of image that is alable on the internet.

  

So the type of generation is not very useful because we have no control over what kind of image will be generated.

  

But that is going to be for long because we will see how to actually control and of the generation say, so you don't have to wait to long.

  

And I assume that you are all familiar with the sact that we can have the moment generator images for cample base on text.

  

So this is exactly what we're going to see in a few minutes.

  

But before we go there, I said at the beginning of class soday were going to talk about late and diffusion models.

  

But where is the la in late and diffusion model?

  

So far have seen how diffusion model works.

  

So we have to put the put the concept of late and space in relation. With the diff the diffusion process.

  

How much does it cost to sle an image a high resolution image 2024 by 2024 if we have 1,000 km.

  

This is going to be a very expansive process because we have a very high resution input that must be process by ant.

  

And we have to repe for time. Essenzia imagine w it cost for a tempo to computer section of one la solution image and multiplited by This is the cost of generating, one high resolution image with these type of model.

  

So the the computation cost skills with the resution and he proportional to the size of the image w HNW are the hite and the with. And to be number of time steps.

  

Infect the original diffusion model work to very much resution 42 by 42 64 by 64 and in experiment you're going to work with this very law resution and even working at this very resution is extrem computa expsive and we had to go to aat to down scale a standard diffusion model e standard late in diffusion model.

  

So to work with If we want to go up from 64 by 6456 by6 or larger even 2024 by 2024 we need to work a different way nel more efficiente way.

  

To do that we need, this is the real image.

  

This is standard photograph that downloded yestery morning from Google.

  

And we can feel that this image israelstic. In.

  

La first reason is that structure isstic.

  

So this is the, this is a w for dog and th in the place where we expected to be the eyes are in the place w we expecte to be The phycs is recd, so the the dogs are not overg in mir, but the place on the surface in a phically reasonable way.

  

Theposes consistente with the destructure of the body, so we don't have strong posies or arlation of the bones which are not constant with the annatomy.

  

So this is the global all of the aspecs are global aspects.

  

And if you said I giv you this image, I will to give you a veryry images, a very version of image.

  

You would still expect this structure to be rected.

  

You would still expect the pose to be consistent with the annatomy.

  

You would still expect the place to be consistent with the phycs you willd still expect the dog to have for lims to eyes and one mouth.

  

And then you have a detas.

  

So for a image to be realistic, you need to have realistic ditas.

  

You need to have realistic texture.

  

You have need to have high frequence detas that are consistent reality.

  

If we look at the late in diffusion model, late diffusion model will start with pure noise. Grap is from the origin late and diffusion model paper, so if you want to book at the original I had the soce of each image, but you can they are all at the end of the of this light.

  

If we look at all the images in our chain from the pure noise to the clean image, each of image a a difference sign to.

  

So if we on the if we consider the sign to noise rati, we going to consideradere also theunt of distoon that is going to be introduced in the image.

  

So on one ais of the grath you have the dison, whi maimum, potenti infinite when you have pure noise and it goes down to zero when you have original image, which is exaly the same, so zero distoron.

  

For each images you need a differentetra to be a trans the image on a channel.

  

And if we estimate the bietrated to store e sample in our chain from pure noise to original image we will see a curve like t.

  

In this corb we have two regions. First region is region with high distortion but very very lowbietrate which corrisponse to the region of the space where we have the highest compression.

  

And you see that we can get down to a pretty low distorrtion with a very where small big great. Very small bietrate.

  

So from point here, the distoon from doward, the goes uptico.lly, but here we have a discentriry construction of the image. Which will be a reversion is going to be a highution with hiy a lot of high frequency detail, but it's going to be an image where we can see the objet and we recongnize that the structure of the global structure of obje is consistent.

  

The remain of the information is lost into the detal. If we al the that the hisution, then we have to incree the betrally.

  

E standard fusion model does distinguis between the So will me the error in the pixel space and a lot of the error will be will be dedicated to learning the fine grain detas.

  

But that is a way of time.

  

So the idea behind the late and model is to divide and conqu inad of solving one big problem, estima the hion image we are estima differen problem.

  

The fist problem is to selly to handle with semantic compression and to learn to go from Zero information and 100% noise to a compress version of image that retains most of global structure.

  

And then to go up from the compressid version to hi resution version where we have a video .

  

But this is not the same a generation in image.

  

This is simply upscale in image in crisi in the resuti image.

  

So this is a form of compressione.

  

So the is that the lausion model of learning original ima lear the compression and we use ano teque to go to estimate the original image from the compon.

  

And you can as a sort of JPG, but pression is not ota us a standard compression tech like in JP, but us aural network that compress the ima in space which is perception which has good properties prom perspective.

  

And this is w relate from.

  

So in working in the pixel space our diffusion model works in a compress space is a lat space.

  

We understand visuy space really law resution version of Ama pati e compresse elet space.

  

And la space is manag by model which è una varia coder that lears to comp and compre image comp.

  

So we due model that we have la variation in coder and the diffusion and we use the variation in coder to a the compression meccanismi.

  

And the diffusion model that has better properties and vibtion of the coder is use to learn the semantics.

  

The la space is different in type of variation coder because la space here is a special mark.

  

So's not a singlecture, but it is a sort of mini image image with some tra So I hisentation to remember that this is not vactor, but it is a featureman.

  

It is not an image that we understand, but it is a representation.

  

The diffusion model inside of starting from noise inmpic space we start from the noise in the la space.use the model, app our diffusion process op the final noise space and we go back to original input space us our decoder.

  

The add is that la space can be small.

  

Uy we work here at 64 by4.

  

So we don't have to scale up the diffusion process.

  

We can still work at very special resution and then us other model which As not a very high quality per sé to handle the decompression.

  

It is th that the variation when we saw the variation and coder we also we cannot use the variation variation out and coder will generate gry images.

  

That is true, but is true if we start from vi space, i varia.

  

H usder just to move from questa loro risolution version to the hiution version.

  

So we don't have to learn the stature of image and the di we just need to learn how to feel in the missing di So we just need to scale image.

  

And the image that we will reconstruct will not necess exacly the same, maybe will have We have simular texture, but not the same ima when we compre we lose information.

  

So the late and diffusion mother will not work on the original image for work on the compression that is generated by variation long coder.

  

To train his model originally what we did was really split for problem into.

  

So we train a variation and coder with elet space that has same size on wusion model will operate.

  

And we use standard variational coder or variation where we use reconstruction lost that have better percep properties like a perception loss.

  

We havent seen those construction loss, but what do is inde of computing the dire. Take the feat of pretrain network usu VGG and the compare feature. We can mostrare the works better in terms of the quality of final result.

  

Once we have train variation coder, so we train them sepa.

  

We take all the imag in our training set, we compre to opin the la re and varia diffusion model on the comp .

  

We split the problem in.

  

And in the original model we was re really stage training. Quindi train la variation and coder and then diffusion model on late space.

  

Now the are e model where they can do one stage training, quindi the train variation coder e velate in model.

  

It è possibile to do è più complicate.

  

Devariation out in coder adge of spli process is that the diffusion model works tera.

  

So the diffusion sw and we need app to resution image. La variati on the is fast.

  

They can go from from la space to input to pixel in one pass .

  

So the riconstrukes much less takes to computer global structure of image.

  

And reconstruc the image which is done by the coder part is a problem th generating the global struc.

  

This is the part. You have a resion of global the image expsive.

  

So we can a model like which is not a model, quindi non have the same quality , the same capacity, but it is much.

  

At time, inad of semplin in the pix space we sempre in the letter space.ad of image, no image, we sample e noise la space Then we compiute the final, s There's sma mistake in the s.

  

So of course, we are simply So.

  

So we sample the sample the noise And we optain from the diffusion model the restru in space and we proj back in the pix us the.

  

We' the ender in the is only use a.

  

The diffusion model never and This is molto compfficiente.

  

So per esempio, if want to to generate b52 images, we can from the 64 by 64 space and will reduce the computation the number of operations by effector of4.

  

So that's a hge huge reduction in the computation log.

  

The over vintage of of the approch is that it makes it very easy to ab the to domin that are not images. By changing the variation lot coder.

  

So we keep stru of the la space we keep of the diffusion model the same use different.

  

So we can coders for data, we can coders for protein structures.

  

And for the ender coder we need a model that is domin inpenden, so we will have different for free di data we will have different for proinstru but, but if we use the same type of la space, the diffusion modelel will not change so we can re type of architecture across man many different may we will have opportunity also to see some example rest of course.

  

I said we una variation lountain coder that's true, but aften we make some adustment to variation lo coder in order to make the pre training of this component more efficiente.

  

For example, We can ad avversarial discriminator on pop to improve fidelity.

  

This is un architec that we have.

  

Las variation loder plus and avversario compon and thi will incre fidelity of verstruction .

  

And we can use some form of regolarizzazione in the late space to make the training more easer.

  

We have option. One is to use with respect to, which is the same a we have in the regular variation lo coder e it's the reguzing compont of the velo.

  

So it's a same in the regular varia we can discretized a quantize la variation coder, of the to usually. One of optiontions.

  

So we have all the bug of tricks that we have scen for the variational coder and we us to pretrain the compon.

  

So we have we have move from the pixel space to be space.

  

Now we We have to start to put everything toger and seew we can use building blocks to build actual architecture.

  

And we will refer in this case to the original stable diffusion architecture wilish by roback in2 are now many more with many different adces with more complex in coder more complex diffusion models that we prible to se in the course, but the the gest of the technique remains the say.

  

The main element that we miss is been able to condition the generation.

  

So you have all seen already scen or use on form of generative AI to generate.

  

Images I supposed or you have seen images and most of you will have use this type of generation by proting.

  

So are the images che we sa at the beginning and are the corrisponding prom generated them.

  

So what we miss to complete the pic is how to go from the prompt to the actual image.

  

So we don't want toample any random images wver.

  

We want image that is consistentet with thet.

  

How we consisten is a whole o problem and is something that we will see the end of course when we will with how tovalutate the model eval in decide in the generation is good or not is is a complex problem.

  

Sometimes even from a almost phisopl perspective because what do we want with the models that can tote many images that are potentially consistent with discaption.

  

So this is the architec as it was originally published, so let's break it down and almost all of these building blocks we have already scene.

  

So we have our input image ex and our in and we have our decoder that go back to Pixel space.

  

So theco ecoder mo from the li space pixel space.

  

And it just a different A space representation in linea representation, but the building blocks are.

  

Then in the lat space we have our diffusion and our reverse process.

  

In the diffusion process we go from Zed to Zad of T. So we have all the intermid steps, but as we ha before we don need to all the step all the intermi step, we can direcly generate space a the noise magnitud that we need.

  

In the bottom, you have very ver process. Very verse process goes back from the la space representation a time T Capital T and goes back to the original Clean representation.

  

I each step, you had our noising and coder that takess input the image at the previous step of the chain and produces the image the cleaner image or conversay prediis and and then we subise fromtens space reentation.

  

So this is the same as we seen before, but inad of having the visual reentation in pixel space what we can e Italy visualize what happs.

  

You need to imagine the same thing applide to the feature map of a neura network.

  

So that the process is the same.

  

We still use the unit to prodict vis, so this is our unit at the end of each residual the Unite has skip connections and we feed to the Unite the noise schedule as before.

  

So This is exactly same architecture in that we have seen before, so far But apply to relate and space.

  

What is different is this connection here?

  

Which a the conditional sytheses.

  

At each step of the Unit, in each residual block, we have a cross attention modu, which compute the attention between the feat in the space and the feat that are extracted from the conditioning representation .

  

I for the momento we assume that we have a textual prompt, so we will process the textual prompt with enco for the version of stable diffusion weuse clip.

  

So every see that everything that we haveen so far to because we have the cross attention from the transformers.

  

We have the textual the visual uage visual linguistic representation from clip.

  

We have the variacoder decoder to compre images and we have our the noe in out. All the pieces are in order to give you fantastic architecture.

  

So the The component here to is called an expert is an expert, which a conditional sy.

  

If we want to use text, we need un expert is a to process tex, so we will use clip.

  

If want to use semantic map, we will an expert that allo to process e sec map for sele we use transformer o reconvolution nwork.

  

Thesentation that we have here is essenzia cities of token.ken are given as attach to representation invalated space.

  

In differents, so we have options.

  

One opti is to concat to the space re simply atta the output of the expert to the presentation in le space the other option is to feed the representation to the at e step in the Unit.

  

So each laer in the e resi block in the Unite a a crosson at the end and e residual block takes input the same the same representation. Which a the Unit to take in to account at each resolution the information that comes from from the conditioning.

  

So the main eled were ading to the late and diffusion model in or to an able conditional presentation is simply a crosstension block.

  

If we use tex representation, export is going to be clip And when we experica pretrade on a distribution and then find tuned with the coder. The representation that is out by expert is specializza fine tuned in order to hi or better resution sytesis. Learning process is the same, so veloce is ess same.

  

We computing the miscorero bet the error, computed by the and the no generated by the noise schelar.

  

If we have un conditional shes o predicted noise will depend on on the la space at the previme and the time its.

  

If we have conditional shes, the noise will depend not only on the plat space at the premius times, but also on the output of our of our expert which has parmieter.

  

So we have tw set of parmeters, see that represent the Unite and that represent the expert.

  

And tTA are jo are train toger us a single lost.

  

So the lost is the same.

  

The only thing that changes is the input to the the out coder.

  

If we have a simple, a simple input that like text or a class, for esempiole, if we want to condition the generation on a class label. Simply concatenate the text space.

  

So this is why we have strange symb ero that is witch.

  

If we use tax, we here of the switch and the en the Textual input is given as input to the encoder.

  

If we have inputs for example that we use for image imate translation that have a special component do it differently and we direct Ited.

  

If we have the textual, the text component is given on t branch here as outp of the cross attention where a the special component is concadated and given as input.

  

The reason why we need a glo to differentes meccanism is because the textion is global description of image.

  

So we need to take it that into account. At all levels, at all the resution, at all concep level, but it is it appli to entire image of the same time.

  

The cross attention will learn the association between visual concept and words.

  

So will understand which parte of of the input will refer to different wordn the senten.

  

So the cross attention will theDP the modern to learn for esempio what a cat looks like or what the sky looks like and code us the attention which parte of the generated output corresponde to specific word in decation.

  

If we use semantic maps of special input we need to garantire allinement between the feat ma and the the la space, but we but our special aliment we not have to informate in.

  

We are essentiall given the same pix and the same position.

  

So we know exly which pixel in the late spacespond which pix in the input space. Because it is just a complesson.

  

So to give you an idea of what semantic sythesis looks like, in this case we have as input a potential segmentation And are for ech pixel we have a class in this case red is the sky and green is the river and those are of yellows arbitries and grey, I think is.

  

I don't remember, no, may graces wi trees and this is the grass of the bank.

  

And are images dede.

  

So every time we fed the semantic map to and diffusion model, we will sempre a difft ima perché we start from different nois late and space.

  

And all of the images are consistent with with the special special map.

  

So a different steps in different itera, in different of theerence process we will op different images, but all will beh with with distructure.

  

Some of the a some of the at the different times of the day and so.

  

We can use the same the same process to learntask for example, if we use mask, we can learn an imp in task.

  

We can learn tasking which the imag completed.

  

If we lear if we give us input de map, we can bestruc image which is consistent with a given depMA.

  

We can imp principal also use combinations for esempioample of tex and semantic.

  

Forle, a text, a tax prompt and the semantic.

  

But we have one big di adge of architecture. That the expert here is cotraine with the late and diffusion model.

  

So if we want to train a model to do prompt tax to image conversion to generate image starting from prompt, we need to have a database of images with associated pros.

  

If we want to train a model to go from the semantic map to the the pixel space we need agiantic database of images with associated pixel map.

  

We can not change the expert time.

  

Ad time we can use the expert that we have trad our rela diffusion model if want to do segmentation image we need to have one la diffusion model train for segmentation image.

  

I want to take image, we need to have una model train for image.

  

And training type of model at the complexity that we need to achieve these high resolution images takes very lar dataset in the order of billions of images.

  

We're not talking about thousand of images anymore we're talking about billions.

  

So veryw very few institutions have the reces the datasets and they scale to actually traincipe of models.

  

If very lar, we have a few open source models that have been tray per esempio by the the stable diffusion family is open source.

  

Close source models are train on protary data and offten also open source model are inc we be in train on protary data so we don't really know which data has been used and how many images and where they were source from.

  

Train in this type of model from cratche is something that very few can afford. Generati level of high quality.

  

Also of quality of images matter.

  

For esempio, images were generated byMU, which is one of the stable diffusion, which diffusion model train by by meta in a paper that they actually publis, so we have some information about how they train.

  

And the quality is also du to the careful seletion of the data that was used to train the model.

  

So y not just random images sle from the web, but the are curate in order to be high resolution, highqu images and of there also images with the sin artistic look and field sorere not bype of you know the images that your granny is producing using e camera from 10 years a the usually very professional looking images.

  

The paper from this is al also one of the papers that I have selected as ready matevial.

  

So then you can have a locate it.

  

It's not very techcal paper, but it goes into the detas of detas is a strong word.

  

It is some information about how they train, how they constructed the the training set.

  

So, basically that's it, it's very A the end the elements are it put together a lot of elet we haveen.

  

Man of the blogs have many va for ex now clip is reted.

  

So the new model click any use more complex, more complex Text and coders with much more parameters. The complexi of the compont has also in cre and us a very is also incre in the complexity of the inference time because you don't only have a very very expansive inf task for in the la space, but youso have a very complex expsive componente that processes the caption, but moraless the gest has been the same what we would like to do and this is something I will see after the Easter break. Is to be able to usare a pretra in coder e pretrainusion model and change the type of condition wout having to rein the thing which we cannot do because most of the research group not have reces to retrain this model.

  

So if want to use a different type of condition, we need a way to ap model with sma data. Thi is s che we going to see ater the Em break.

  

In the lare going to produce silified of the architecture using building blocks. Building blocks a.

  

And you going to us on the flower.

  

So we the work in the next lab, but spoiler will see how to do it in the pixel space because we will work with small images how to do it in the la space and how to condition very simple ation in order to generate specifi type of fwer.

  

But for the purpos of any o pratical project, never going to train cratch.

  

You're always going to use some adtional components or ad most to find tuneing of some sword.

  

Before we close, I just wanted to give you a couple of pointers.

  

The first is that se moders having.

  

So even if if we have the lar GPU, we are never going to a to afford very large pses.

  

Working with smallses will generate very noisredit.

  

So is more diffit to make models converge.

  

In the lab Pietro will give you some pointers on which type of which type of optimizers to use in horror to work with the small bet scises.

  

And we will use also tech which called exponentional movie avverage which has been introduced to cop with the small dite size.

  

In practice instead of computing the gredient directly and using the gredients of ech batch to optimize the to do grade in and using for Adam.

  

You keep a running ige of the waits that you update.

  

And use this running this avverage computation in order to update t moving avverage on the fly.

  

Soad of us the cut the cut, do is running avge of the in the w steps and then you use that to up update the model and at the the end of of the training you will use the the the everage that you have.

  

I'm introducing this technically because you will need to use it in the lab over w be very hard to train. Even the the version of late and diffusion model del work at 64 64 require requip tech or to work with the type of reces che are alable on colla or standard computational environment.

  

We have finis late and diffusion mods for reasons.

  

They generate very high quality.

  

They generate very samples, they don't suffer from mod collapse like guns.

  

And are very to train.

  

So usually when you have when you have generative mod, you have problems, sile quality, diversity and speed.

  

You can high quality in high diversity, but law speed.

  

You can have high quality and high diversity but you can have high quality and high speed by law diversity or you can have high diversity and high speed by lawample quality.

  

Dipend use variation in coder diffusion models or guns.

  

Guns are fast and realisti, but the suffer from mode.

  

So the have le have laty and also unstable train.

  

Variation in coders are fast and learn a representation of the la space but they produce lastic images.

  

Fusion models are high quality, are flexible and hicontro and they also are highverse, but they are slow and the require messive train.pend on what you need, if you needed speed at time and realistict you go for a gun.

  

If you can afford the cost , you go for because the realim and the diversity will be hier and you don't have modps as in gun.

  

But there is no one one size Most of the time we working with system that on a cloud infrastructure, so we assumed that we have infinite computational reurces and so diffusion model are.

  

But if that is not the case you we need to go for over models like guns, variational and coders or autogressive models.

  

To give you an idea for esempioample the da family, which is the family from open.

  

Daasressi model da lì 2 was.e we don't really know, but there is that it's also some form of fusion model.

  

We haven't seen normalizing flows, we will see them hafter be th break, but mostly because they of how they are using combination with diffusion mothers to improve the sample in process.

  

So I am finished.

  

If this is the bibliography I was talking about.

  

Any questions curiosities?

  

Yes.

  

You can do whatever I can translate the Yes.

  

Hmm.

  

This sitch depend on the export che us.

  

So depend on the expert we need to give the output can as input to the enois Unite or as input to the cross attenti.

  

Yeah.

  

Yes.

  

Yes.

  

Yah, the.

  

But you need, yes, you right.

  

The cross attention, in the crosson Q corrisponsed the token of the conditioning and K and D corrispond to the toted space.

  

If we don't use the contention, we have to remember that inside the noise in Unite we also have a self attention. If we concat here the output of the expert with with the input space the self attention will take are of ain vetture.

  

This is most use for if thetions have special simir struction.

  

So if we have for example a semantic map as input, We don't have to le special structure, we know that is certain area will corrisponde to a certain area of a light in space.

  

The resution will be different because la space is is a compress version, but it is still a special map, special . In that case we can simply use the selfention to model relationshi between different parts the images.

  

Ind if we use the tex the retru of the text is comple different from the restru of late space we need to use a cross tenon.

  

This is simply to recall that this process isterative.

  

So we need to repete multiple times.

  

It's always the same unite we just rete multiple times.

  

So that's just a reminder. Atation.

  

Think of like the comptation over cool in I network.

  

In the begining, use the unroletation whi we had all the steps, but can also use You can also use this notation to indicated in time you're simply feeding the output as an input to a modern.

  

Any other questions?

  

If you don't have any questions, I just want to take a few minutes of your time to illustrate a couple of tes propos that I have concerning stable diffusion models.

  

Even if you're not interested into do in it, maybe the are to potential applications. So it could be interest also for o other. Are not the only Let me see if I can. Going to Let me do i this.

  

My the way are not the only tes that we have on generative models.

  

I will also published a PDF with other teses.

  

These are only even one that I supervis directly and I related to the particolar topic.

  

For the o you can for to Davide Calandra, che èble for the o are rela use of generative models in mixed reality e aumt reality virtual reality applications.

  

Inlar contex, we are working on project for w we have num possible.

  

The open problem al se And the idea, the first one is related to hans the properties of Tex image. Sythesis. Specially the ability of of the generative model to follow the instruction precisly.

  

The are a been tremendosi improvement on the topic, but most of improvements that we have seen so far are fondamentalmente opta by scaling up.

  

So you incree the complexity model. Incre the number parameters. Incree the mount of data incre the computational budget and optain better res which is great ifou are Google not great for the rest of the world.

  

So the idea is to try and work on a fondamenta different way of condi that is more efficiente and dot suffer from the same problems.

  

In particolare, we a working in questo momento the are many problem that we k about for tempole we have problems relate to bias, we have problem related to rected.

  

The generative model my acci remember pcs and give you an image that is in fringes on the copright of soone else.

  

We are working on the concept of obje with object placement and special awareness at the moment.

  

Per esempioample, here the prompti a fork to the left of a carote and usually a diffusion model will generative for and the carote, but maybe the special arrangement is not exactly what you want.

  

Here in this case we have share abovernice and in the stead in the generate images. We have knife above the chair.

  

So type of what we lookpe of model that can improve on this special awareness, but also protocs to test the special awareness because also testing in this properties is an area of active reseuge. Contex we working and what sw un publion't have a ption, we on it.

  

What we working is a version essentially of of stable diffusion that we are fine t to take as input not the original text but a graph.

  

A graph is structure di representation in which inside of having words we have concept that are connected using using relationships.

  

And the strucred representation is less ambid in the text and also in is a directed graph.

  

So Per esempioample, in this case, Frag is reading a new paper the sing graf in cod the direction of action. As you rell is by directi.

  

So if the frog is reading the new paper or the newssper is red by a frog attention has diulty in different shating the tw because of the Because of the syrical properties of the tension.

  

So the idea is to what we looking at is converting the caption in a sing gra and us in ope of a are. Ourching in particolare particolar Pietro's rew is working on that we to the in order to improve under the idea that we have to full in de that this will lead to better condition, so we can optain better result without in crisi. The complexity of the text and in crisi the complexity of the text and makes the model essally inaccessible to regolar GPU and very.

  

How we do it for a momento not I don't think it's relevant.

  

Just idea that we are working on the and it's complicated architecture because we have to work with graph, so we have to use a type o architecture that a type of architecture.

  

It not a transformer regolar convolution.

  

The open problems that we have so far apart from investigate in o va of the architec, so that we can make it work.

  

So we still in the exploration ph.

  

So one optionre is to help as exploreantic thegantic search of possible architecture.

  

The ohing that we want to do is to much the sing with layout generated sythes.

  

Layt is essy ind is a set of bounding boxes w with classes.

  

You can in out as an image and then you can use sble diffusion a very of stable diffusion to produce an image which is consisten with.

  

We have to doday with the semantic sementation, the conpt is subte semantic sementation with the layout.

  

So step one the are many many vari of sing graft to image syhes in which instead of generating the s the generato bound in box.

  

This a un adge of what we do because we have the physical arrangement of bo boxes, but we relationship perchéuse we in the s we also relations. Possibile implemen for volta implement base generation perché we ne to compare our model very few people a in gra generation starting really froming, most do it from.

  

And if time to include incorporate in So this is.

  

And the other problem that we have is the data quality genera a caption is si genera a sing, quindi sing sono very.

  

And that is a problem train the model Even ifre not rein in everthing cratch, quindi we turing and we a fine t a rela large data set one images, but one images for disciple model is small size.

  

So we need to an efficient way of having high quality data to generate to train o model.

  

This is one area in which we are looking at.

  

In other area, in o project that we have is for imation.

  

So in this case what we want to do is starting from a real image to generate a versi of the image that preserves some of a properties, over original one, but cant be used by a search engine to rey identify the original image.

  

We have already have two versions of the architecture, which we have produced in a project fund by AI for Me which we call come Flash And the idea is to take we have two versions that o base on controble image sytheses.

  

We haven't seen yet to do this.

  

This is something ts building blocks for esempioample, a building block here or contronet are building blocks and we will see after the break.

  

But idea is to use a pretra we don tou diffon, we just create as that can teach stable diffusion to generate the anymize version of image.

  

There is a paralle b ciò we doing in tex to ima generation e cosa we do in come fge.

  

I wou like to do is i genera sing and then from a sing genera generato the any of i. T is for proje is but and we have a first version of come flash, but we still working come flash to zero And the t problem that we are looking into is are traditional let's a problem of image interpretation.

  

This is also problem which we have be working on for 7 years and is also problem for which justly fo the start. Co-fo the startup with a colle from the psoyparment and the idea is to build model for ima interpretation that are.

  

So this is a standard interpretation problem.

  

It is not in generative problem at the moment.

  

Una thing that we w like to do, which is generative in nature is to take clusters of images from ours.

  

We are dev in sepe of cter in tech.

  

And at the moment find the cluster, we have a number of images and we are somehouse simir.

  

What we like to do is be able to buil a persona out of th images and produce sumzation of cluster that is both textual and vision.

  

So we can say to potential cli in images thaty we take from social media the are 10 type oft images t be impduced.

  

And e image represens the type of person and I can give you tex description, I can give you a for this persona and I can give you a visual pic hat type of images looks like without using the original image.cause the original images a nimare from a privacy of view.

  

So we want to use fictional images that still represent the core of the original once.

  

This type of clus szation, which requi which we vision wl requi differentpe of sythes both textual and visual. Are problem which we are working with generative models. We have that acly examp of applications of the type of mods that we have seen today.

  

Most of them for this one which we don't have an solutions.

  

So this is completel open problem.

  

For the o we are building solutions on of stable fusion.

  

We will also have a type of teses that are most are related to virtual reality and the use of AI in virtually reality.

  

If you a intereste into those type of topics my suggestion is to tak directly with Davide.

  

Calandra. Can and have him a list of the propositos all of which are publid ofso on on the politecnico website.

  

And had the idea of the general to able to produce assets.

  

This is also something will see the rest of course, how to produce assets base on on these thepe of mons.

  

So thank you for keeping with me until the end.

  

I think you a probably one of the most attentive classter.

  

I have never had such in audience here at Politecnico.

  

I'm really graful for the time and effort that you put in to 10 in this class, this time of this time of a week. 

  
