
---
## Transcript


So Today is going to be our last sort of teoretical lecture on generative models. From the point of view of how the images generated, then we will move on before switching application we will foc al lit on pray for the lening and wh prainforce the lening is importante.

  

But today what we going to do is essally finish the stable fusion family and the more recent advances in diffusion models.

  

Before we do that I want to take a brief di t normalizing flows or flow base model.

  

Just brief of recap, we have the variation coder.

  

La variation in coder is model that can learn a repretion in let space. By introduce a la varia.

  

This is one of the ke feature of variati co and in we use them in stable diffusion family, in la diffusion model to comp the image to attra la space.

  

But if we want to actually estimate the probability of the gi is not possible because the train oje is in the variation on in approximation of the true probability distribution.

  

We have al seen autoregressive models in autoregressive models we e and ex via conditional estimation.

  

But we do have a true notional of la space.

  

At e step the autoressive model conditions on what has been produce at the previ step, which can be seen as a sort of late and space, but its not really a space that we can exp as variation out and coder.

  

So the first question that we going to ourselves today is can we learn a model that has late and variable space per whihich we can use to learn a feture But also has light can also use it to estimate wver a certain image is or certain data is like highy hood under the pro distribuzione that the model learn.

  

Were not going to usare questa property a lot.

  

This property can use for esempioample for any detection.

  

This is not the focus of questose.

  

So were not going to use, but one of reason why the family of models wasy presented is is also because some application need attractable likey.od.

  

So One way that we can model a distribution is by using a simple simple. Esempio, we have a distribution. Distribution is to as a close for density.

  

So we can ay close form for the distribution but also for many transformations.

  

So as many man properties and it easy to, so for generation . It is hi and realistic. Distribution look something more like. The question fw model is can lear a main from the simple distribution which ismatically nice a a lot of nice property fromal stand point. The distribution which istractable a not nice matemal properties, but è realistic.

  

And can we le transformation that is in.

  

So we can go from one space to and from the late space space and from the real space we can go back to late space.

  

We do set sir in variati coder, but in varia we don't have un informa, so we have to lear mapp.

  

We have to learn mapping from one direction to one mapp from from the la space to to the image space and one ma from the image space to the la space.

  

In flow base model a special kind of function, whi è in and so we can sily learn one of them per esempio de and produce the incoder by simply the function.

  

So we ac to learn only one transformation. And optainformation by reftion.

  

So e element in the input space X as a exspond in the la space le ex ma.

  

As the conseguce of the be is that the little space is not a compact space like in variation , but hattamente la same dimension of the input space. In this type of modelf the input space is i6 by,56 la 6 by6.

  

So has same dimension.

  

But the properties the distribution will be different because we impose the distribution of a la space to be some kind of nice, like for example, a gtion distribution.

  

How do we train the model?

  

We train them by maximizing the the liel hood of obtaining the data the training data.

  

After inng back from late space.

  

So we lear funtion that when we met an image ex tote space de and then go back to the input space we sort of image that we had before.

  

And we do so byforcing that the probability that the likely hood otain in a certain image is the same as in the original space. We have seen before the liod is in general intractable, but we are going to make it easy to len not by approxima like invariation out colo But by explo by introducendo an and exp the properti of supp.

  

One thing that we know is that if we have an investible transformation F which we use to ma the input space to let in space we can express probability of the image ex a a combination of the probability of of the pri of the latin space.

  

And the probability here is our is decided by us, quindi we decide family of probability that we going to use.

  

Multiplid by the agredient of this function F. Technilly speaking the gradient is is actually a metrics because is not escalar value, but it's actually a metrics.

  

And the metric is called vegjocobian, which contain all the all the probability of ech output of w to the probabili of ech input of of if we a funtion wes input of size and produces output inctor of sizeing to be a squarec.

  

So we have by D possible de and whi con metric.

  

And from metrics going to determina the to produce determinant.

  

From a geometrica Steinpoint, this is by a way a stunder way that we the gredients inside in neural network, when we do gat and distant, in most of the cases we are computing gradients on functus that are applied to multidimensional data.

  

So normay we wouldinetrics like ts.

  

From the stand point from a geometrica o stand point, each and tre in the metrics, how much the certain out of dimension changes when the input dision changes So we can interpre determinant as as meure of how much the transformation loy volume.

  

So ifk of the as a un volume, we going to do is risor to fit geometrica geometrica speaking the actual data distribution.

  

By the way since we are not working probabilità, ma we are the probabilità, the moltiplication becom some which è attra And we op the some of due One the log dansity of the output is express as the some of the log dancety of the input which is the let space said?

  

This is something that we control we decide which distribution going to use and volume change correction which termine if we look at the certain volume in the lat space how much in the autoface is going to be distorted.

  

This is our la space, this is ource and and we want to learn how to distor the input space in order to optainut space.

  

H in this case the transformation is simple because we are simp stretching the input space.

  

In reality this is going to be complicated, but also more diffi to visualizzare.

  

So in terms of learning we learn essentially by me erro over the training dataset. Time, after we have lear our transformation, can it in different.

  

If we want to generate new images, which we normay want to do, we going to sample from the la space and th our transformation to pro a new image going back to be input space.

  

If we have un input image and we want to optain it compact, not sorry, it's lat and representation, were simply going to use the inverseformation.

  

So we don't need to separate networks, we actu have only only one.

  

Only one set of waits, but we are going to use them into different directions.

  

To make these these transsformation worked due properties. A which è sile for esempio the ga Weed transformation which is in can an arbitraction, we need function that we know for which we have which we can efficien, so we need a fun for which can compsformationy.

  

And we have to have a problem of computings here which is very expsive.

  

So if we have an input image which is6 b6. We are going to we have po Giacobi Matrics che h 156 by 156 to square.

  

So it's a really really huge metrics.

  

So to salve this problem, use any type of transformation, but we try to use to choose la transformation design to rece the complexity of the Giacobian.

  

In particolare, if the Giacobian is triangler, so the Giacobian is zero, so we can design the so that is zero. Determinant is si product of the diagon.

  

So in of the proporti to the square of the quadrati complessicomes line.

  

In questo case in the input.

  

Even type of model is di to train be if if the transformation is to complex, the Giaco the complexity of computation explode And if we restric the transformation to be sufficiente sufficile the quality of the images willt.

  

So we have trade of.

  

How we solve the trade of by chaining multiple sile transformations.

  

So we use the same the same stru we have for diffusion model.

  

We start from an input and we app ciries of transformation un we get to the final la space.

  

And at time we go back and we app the same the cies of transformation backard.tion can be molto simp, so we can lear a sile funtion. By stucking e simple transformations, we can model and ary complex distribution.

  

A intermedia step we have un intermedia la representation if we do the which we not going to going to the deta perchéuse this is the type of model for is just a steping stone to word something more interesting.

  

We can actually see that The training objective becomes the some of the training objectives of each individual step.

  

So if e in step is efficiente sile the computation of the metrics here is not going to be to complex.

  

Bu at the stesso time we a steck a seri of transformation a na slouse we have to do it itera.

  

We can do it in one past.

  

I think that at this time of the course y start to see a patter emerge.

  

If we try to do fast, we want to have fast process, we going to lose some quality because we have to make our model.

  

Com really simp.

  

So this is a trade of that we have seen without regressive models is a trade of that we have with diffusion model, higher quality, but also loch more time to actually generate image. Just to give you un esempioample. Are due examp from the original paper normali.

  

In the first example, we a using as la space distribution, the gace distributi.

  

Soy, in this is In the second we us the uniforme distribution, soy a flat, fli distribution oentire space. Quindi in questo case the pri is a constant.

  

La trasformation that using is very un transformation, quindi a p.

  

We a multip biometrics, ad in bias and and using no line function I tang to process the output.

  

This is a sile transformation and has the good properties that we wanted.

  

If, if we combine a sufficiente number of the sile transforma, we can very complex, we can mod very complexbility distribution. In questo casoe what see qui è final is una combination of 10 lineer transformation stackt. Which of pain a complex distribution.

  

Yes.

  

Well, it's truly linear because there's anction function which is not linear.

  

But is the main inble part Italy transtion.

  

In princip, I not natura wether we have ahemal Theorym that prove it, but I would say that by extension, I think it's possible.

  

If we stack a sufficion number of of transformations, the problem is how much high we need to go to have aful approximation because what happen see the in the limit where and goes.te is really interesting from a pratical perspective.

  

I think so I think so.

  

So to f are just a stepping stone to ward essentiy a new versional stable fusion.

  

So we need to know, but we not going to explore in more de ithin the labs.

  

But there are some models that are based onpepe transp.

  

Glow is one of the first models.

  

It was publid in 201 It is the transformation, is is compose of a scale and biaser. Is a risscaling.

  

P by one by convolution, which è sething very sim to pann flow that we have, which is.

  

And then ap layer, which split the content of the lag space along esions, split in subet.

  

One is transform and the over one is ket. Is ket as it is There could be different type of maskin.

  

One is by channel, so have the channels are transform, a cappt intact.

  

The everone is a special mask in a checker board pattern, af the image is transforme af the images kept concept.

  

So normalizing how been use they can generate good poli images, but the la space in which the operate has the same dimensional input.

  

So they cannot be use to comp the image in a selly reach space as we do with variatider.

  

This is the main, the problem with typle architec.

  

So usually, if we want to make it work on images we need some sort of multiscala architectu, which thi the lo scale, di general conten we introduce the detas at higher .

  

Were not going to work on type of architec a lot.

  

What we are actually interesse into because we it will be used for for our journey in diffusion models is the concept of con flow.

  

So we have seen what have so far is a discret evolution in which we apply a function for a number of discret steps .

  

One possible formulation of the flow model is what is cald the very residual flow. In which transformation isly keep the output at the prile step and ad a displacement or velocità TV, which is an inble in this case function of X and step K. If we look at flows through the lens of resigio flows, each iteration essentially a trajectory where we start with 0 and each step we move to another another point algse discretize trajectory by using a step di.

  

QuD residual flow has also atinus interpretation. In wch these discretize version is convertited into in ordine differen which in which the evolution of ex is gi by the velocity. In questo caso the la velocity is a continuo funtion which is parametri by a s of w and our network a in the continuo flow framework, our network le predict velocity flow. Influce we need to sol ordin e in or to retro our projecto. Which is a problem that we know how to solve.

  

We're not going to look to do o freshure course on ordin equaations, but we know that we have nurical. Me to compute.

  

So we can use them to to to approssimate questa trajectory after we learn questa function.

  

Algh with necess we are not going necessy to use normalize flows as they are.

  

This is an important step in the evolution of type of model.

  

And is a concept that we're going to see again in maybe half a of evolution of diffusion model that incorporate this concept in order to make samply fad.

  

So to some up before we go back to diffusion models, we haveen five different families of generative models, autore model, variati coders, che diffusion models and normalizing flows.

  

Ech of the model has frozen. The adventage of normalizing f flow is that the arely the only model in the famili maybe a part from energy base models that can both estimate and ext like hood and also have an exping lat and space modeline.

  

So if for any application you need a model that can do both this things you're going to use en normalizing flow could be a good a good.

  

But the quality of the generation images, by themsels is good, not exp.

  

So forposes diffusions models and guns are going to be more important because for the purposes of our of ourse the quality of the generate images is more importante ot of the of the of the generative model. Folk, mi the cas For esempio, the are f us generative model to pret drugs or protein interacti.

  

And for the properti mi be import the quality of the generate. Questo is for, but non necessari for all si applicati of generative AI.

  

So if questions, ma we going to go back to questo concept in a short in a short moment I want to go back to our main topic for today which are late and diffusion models.

  

Quindi time before the break, we have the architecture.

  

In architecture, which is essentially the architecture behind stable diffusion one to give you alsol name.

  

We have a variational out in coder, which compresses the images in and out of laten space and we haveis in process iterative process which is implementad by aising Unit.

  

We have also seen that we can condition the generative process by using an expert which takes input a conditioning signal for example a tech caption and us the cross attentions or selfention laers and the Unit to combine information e inlated space.

  

Today we going toget for the momento about the per il resto il resto of le we going to forget we a doing the diffusione process inte spa going to take it for And we going to foc on due questions.

  

The first one is can we make and more efficiente.

  

So we know that for a standard diffusion model like for the diffusion models to achieve a good quality images we nedly 000 steps that's a lot of steps and a lot of computational power.

  

So today we going to see w we can bring it down to 20,ven or2 seps.

  

So this is one top that we're going to see today.

  

And the other question that we have for today is can we stilition to specifi control Without actually re training late in diffusion model. We were discussing yes with how much does it cost to train stable diffusion?

  

A version of stable diffusion.

  

We don't have really have an estimate.

  

Fi stable diffusion there was in instimate publihed of aroundK euroes to train stable diffusion 1.

  

For sta diffusion free the estimate is around millions of euroes.

  

Once have we have spent hundres of thousands of euroes on training the model.

  

It's really hard to say, ok, let's go, let's.train in one because we need other type of .

  

So the questi that we going to ask today is can sti generation by exploting the fact that model is semplice.

  

So we have a lot of computation can use to change the direction in which .

  

Today we going to to tack due questions and pro we more time for the first question, but we solve them both.

  

So to solve the first problem making more efficiente.

  

We need to change the type of model che going to use.

  

We have seen last time that in the denoising Unite we take the Unite takes input the image a the previus the noising step. And predit the noise that we need to subtrack from image.

  

This is also the type of model that you have that you are training in the lab.

  

And it's simp model that we can think of.

  

Poe the a tpe of model that d predict directly noise, but predict o properties.

  

In particolare, we going to see to score base model as un alternative that can give better result.

  

So is the score?

  

The score is the gent of the logarite of the probability distribution.

  

So of looking direct at the probability or the lag probability.

  

We are computingen with spect to ex.

  

The score can be visualized as a vector field that points tos the part of the distribution that have high identity.

  

So if most of my points are concentrate in are, score is going to be going to be lower when we reach the pick and going to be higher when when we move away from the peak.

  

So in if we see from in other direction, this also a that pushe us the are in the impul space where we have more images.

  

So the probability of acall having a real sample hi We need to always keep in mind that an image for us is essentially combination of pixels, but most combination of pixels have a very la probability, because most ofbination of pixels are just random noise.

  

So the are just areas in small areas in our space where we do aall have real data and where the data is most likey to occorre.

  

Why?

  

Yes.

  

Yes.

  

In thises, we use the logotm because the log space the log probability is eer to tre from the perspective because in the lo space moltiplication becom and divisions differences and both operations are eer to treat nully speaking.

  

So the risk of overflowing and underflowing is much lower.

  

That that's a reason why we use the logaritmic space.

  

Theas we score over is more sule.

  

Because we can think of the probability as compon.

  

A function P and a normazation constant.

  

Uually, the first par is easy to comp we can prodic using a neural network.

  

The seconda parte è una normazation constant which enfor that enforce the property that the integral of probabilità must one.

  

Uall the hard part to computer is the normazation constant because to computer normation constant we would actually have to considere all possible val of ex, which is impossible to do in practice.

  

Howe, if instead of computing of taking the actual probability, we take the gt with respect to a The score becomes the some of functions.

  

One is the the gent of the log of Pat.

  

And the other one is the gt respect to ex of the normazation constant, which is zero.

  

So we can forget about this normalition constant And we can simply look at the unormalize score as the output of our model.

  

This is a function that we do not have we can not compute direct, but we can approssimate by using e ne network. We take ot and in of predic the noise, we predict score.

  

So we sch our change our training obj, but p the over architettura the same as in the standard diffusione. In the not standard because I wouldn't say standard, but in the diffusion one architecture.

  

So beauting training, we still train the network by using some form of means, but instead of computing the mero between the predicted and the true noise.

  

We compi the between the estimated score and the true score of the data.

  

We do not noi, but we can show, we will not do it, but is can look at the tex book that is in the bibliography if want thematical dimostration. That can reformulated to depend only on on the estimated score and samples.

  

So e if we don do not know the score vetro score, we know that last can beft sufficiente for our porpos Cosa ha in time?

  

In time we do simi to no in architec, but in of the no, we a going to some to distribution e which dep on the score.

  

I' using a the atrix to the note the score function after train.

  

So that is going to be result of our training procedure is going to be a set of optima ws, which indicate with the atrix.

  

And we some to the score function stostica elemento random element which depends on the noise risle by factor.

  

From a geometrica stand point formulation which is calle lununge. Is actually moving long score.

  

So this is sim to in away.

  

But ind of moving in deterministic traj the direction of score, we we a ad in some noe.

  

So we don't always up in the same point, but we are moving long in a random way long the projectory of maximum score.

  

In the beginning we have since we a using a wight, we can modulate how much enhases we give to score how much enses we begin. To noe.

  

So eventually the noise the effect of noise is going to lower to the end of the the end of the semp procedure.

  

Remember that in theise the denoise in diffusion model, which is the sable diffusion one which we have seen at the begining of class.

  

Our Unite takes input a clean sample.

  

So don't estimate direct probability of given image, but we estimate a conditional e conditional probability base è una clean da sample.

  

This is al cal condi trick and in score models we do the s.

  

So we app the same condition in trick and instead of estimating direct the score we app noise transition and we estimate the score of the nois of the noise image after perturbation.

  

To do that we going to apply a noise transition funtion, which per gacean a in standard di nois in la diffusion model.

  

Why we do this?

  

From perspec we do it because the problemcom to tre.

  

If we do, the M becom.

  

So t is a good to do.

  

The reon why the Mcom and here you have some screenshot we not to easy to read.

  

But if you go to the blog post of the the tex book that were using, there is actually an interactive inctive simulation that you can use.

  

The why we do this is because when we condition on a given sle, the distribuzione of data becom molto simp. That we have una distribuzione that hase, which are by the mod of the pigs asd by the in the verus colors.

  

If we treat the unconditional probability, the point point we need to decide to under which parte of the w mod of the probabilità distribuzione.

  

If we fix the clean sample, if we condition on a clean sample, then we are essentially restricting the probability focus our attention on one of the free.

  

So all what we need to is sily estimate o pro point is given his point, which is much easer than than figuring the same way, the same thing on the initial distribution which is the su of the three independent mods.

  

It's hard to appreciate, but if you see here the the vecture field the core is represd by these erros and if you see the unconditional distribution distribution wre point in very different directipend on w parte of the input space are. Conditional distribution, we all the core point single point, which makes problem sol Also from the perspective.

  

So this is why we emploed the condition trick.

  

In practice, the condition in trick is very easy to implemen.

  

All we have to do is ta unite which takes input i.

  

And ess what we are doing is computing a conditional probili.

  

So maybe to visi but it very easy to do in practice.

  

So What we are inenois inremaching?

  

What we are doing is essentially taking the same tipe of architecture that we had before, but instead of computing venoise, we compiute the score. On the input, on the noise input.

  

The architec, the number of what we have to do the same, the proce still iterative.

  

What changes is the lost funtion which still depend on the noise that we are adding, but has a different formulation.

  

If we assumed that the noise as a gtribution, which is normalmente, assume a very nice formula in which what we need to maximize is the expectation of of the essentially of the score function. The noise divided by the by the standard deviation of the noise.

  

So ts is un element which we control.

  

And in still have an ive process.

  

We start from a image a of zero, which is pure noise and itera we recover a true image by app di transition. Which una different formulation with the model we in the last le princip the same filosofia.

  

And if we use a sufficien number of step and we have use noise with affit small we can show that at the end we rever in image semplicele from theru data distribution.

  

We can showtill that the transition funtion will eventually lead a to the originginal image.

  

So the princip is the same, we start from noise during training, we ha noise and we go from the true image to the Noise one. Use for process to train the model to produce core to prodict the corretto score and in time we use predicted score to reverse the process.

  

So far we have the same We have the same properties of the original late in diffusion model. To be honest, so far we have even a more diffit problem to sol because if we in our score m model of the noisis fixed.

  

So if we use a vari, we have very a lot of vish ingredient.

  

And if we use a very vari the model capture only the global structure, but weill produce very blory samples.

  

So far we haven't made a lot of progreress making in fast.

  

Instead in or to ave good quality images w we need to do is app un level in cui very of the no according to a schele We start during training incre. Until we reach the maxim anduriample we rete.

  

So we start from maximum, we explore the space and as we converge to real concre the no ech time we very vis we still have to repe our iterative process.

  

So't that we ha improve much fat we have made efficiente because we need to repeat at e step e level of the noise. Each vari.

  

And these process called multi noise levels of the noises core mching or CSN for short.

  

Training these NCSN model is the same as training the denoise in score matching.

  

The problem is that if we have possible level of noise vari for example, if we very from zero to 10, we have 10 score matching processes.

  

So we have to lost for ech one of them and summit in order to computer lost of the entire chain by multip e elemento of the chain with wight function which could princip also be constant but we could also use it to apply more emphases to certain steps.

  

Ech each step e step for example, if we take the step X o Sorry, the last function is going to beally the same a before.

  

But in of be in just the function of the w is al function of of the va, which is not fix in this case, but changes acing to a schedule.

  

A for time we going to apply our transition funzione But we have small difference perchéuse our is not fixed, but depend is the function of the of the vari.

  

So the transition, the score model is going to be, ma we going to retere questa transition and e time we the transition we going to change our to reflect to reflect different Vons of noise according to our to our schedu.

  

But in practice what we have is something simir.

  

So ts is an example from the original and and modern which was train on small images.

  

This are images from Cy are images from celeb.

  

And this is more similar to a type of images that yre cortly working with in the lab.

  

So the process is superficially say.

  

You start from noise and you recover the original image.

  

No that Duri ince you have flick in effect, which is to rect that Turi inference you still add some noise. Which changes the images a little bit.

  

So, when we move to the score function to score matching from noise prediction to score matching, we essentially have a very stilar process.

  

So filosoes the what changes is how we applive the noise, so how we generate a noiseample starting from a clean one. Change the pri in the in diffusion model the prior was standard no where we have gace noise not with un vari, but with param. Is the lost is not the same, but in both cas is error.

  

What is different is what we predict in one case we predict the noise in the case, we predict the score.

  

So O course, we ches beuse we predic different, but stru semplice is similar. In both cases we have to go back from the noise to a clean image by app inverse function, which is different but So it might lead to a better model, but from the computation perspective number of steps NCS and model doesn necessy in tail amader number of seps.

  

So if we stick to a descrit diffusion a descrit evolution in which we have a fix number of steps and ech step is implemen di us a transition function we not going to improve much.

  

The improvement comes by moving to continuo transition.

  

And observing that instead of say that we have steps and ech step so instead of e in index e, which we increment by one at each step, were going to say, ok index is actually a time step T. And our step in of an index which is incrementadmall time step with edution del, which we don't know, but we canume to be sufficiente small. Transition function from our noise in function from XT XT plus can be reformulated a a questo?

  

So we simply substituting e with T and we are substituting Tluslus1 with T plus delta T. But if we look at the funzione in this, questo can can be approssima by the some of XT plus un elemento which is actually the deritive of the of the of because the here is the derivative the square of here is actually a discretize version derivative.

  

So if we want to implemen la derivativo discretize process we going to the differen consecutive time steps e divide by the land of the timep step.

  

So qui we going to ins the deriva and multip by the time step.

  

This is not, is antion.

  

Normay we use discre to sol problems are.

  

So most of we have aus , but we want to sol it with i computer, so we going to discreti.

  

Here we doing the opposi.

  

We have a discretize version and we going to builus one it h bettermal properties.

  

We can do the same with the denoise model.

  

So we can say that in this case The value exs of time plus del can see some of due term, one whipend on X and one which depend on the noise a questo can be reformulate using talor expansion to achieve formulation.

  

Booth cas can been a due special cases of the more general in wch the the discretize the value of ex time the value of ex time Plus e function of X multipli by del T plus e function G which scale the contribution of the noise.

  

The first the first term is actually zero in the NCSN formulation, so we don't have it, sot to constant.

  

And in the over formulation is Vus beta divided by 2.

  

And the second term is present in b formulation and corrisponde to to the terms that I have highlid in yellow.

  

So both problems, both formulations are actually special cases of more general formulation.

  

If we look at this general formulation, we can see as a discretized of the of the differen differenziaqua. Which is calcastic.

  

Why a stostic differenti equa term is a function of ex and deterministic.

  

One term is this function W, which is call the winner function or which is the continuous equivalente of noise.

  

And it is actually the matemal formulation of brown process or a diffusion process, the name diffusionn why they callusionn Because The noise function is la function that we optain in practice when gas is in in a gas . And by randomy its motion is the termine by the random interaction that the parti has with o partiles with wch collides.

  

And this will give you a random motion through the gas. The random motion has been stud in phsic for a long time and can bed by funtion.

  

So we a lot of concept from phs to understand how to improve our diffusion mods. Minutes and we're going to take a break, but we are almost there.

  

We are almost riached our conclusion.

  

So w do it look like If we assume that our transition is no longer descrete by continus, our score function will produce continuo projectories. The input data input data to the corrisponding position in the pri distribution.

  

And this is the forward process in which we move to from input to .

  

And we have the reverse problem of the reverse soc differen, wes from the pure noise to the semples from the real distribution.

  

Do not look at the white forget for a momento the white traje, the stostic trajectories a nois.

  

In process we have a deterministi transition, which is given by the drift functure, plus noise. Esition will be different because we will late around function according to to the random motion given by the W function which is our continus noise.

  

In the rese process were not going to get into the detal of how we get to the formulation.

  

What is interesting to see is that in very verse process we still have a function which depends only on ex which is the terministic and a compont which depends on on the noise.

  

So differen transition can bed perché in cas we have not to no.

  

So we going to produce a transition back from the no space which sort of opposi transition bui os allo to different of the input. From gi elemento of noise even point no space we will get sli different variazioni be the process is not terministic.

  

This is happs the animation really look gooding wi PDF, but this is really what happen.

  

So in the f process we start from the image and then we had no And e point corrisponde to a noise version of the incre noiser version of image.

  

Thi proje is base of the val of FNG which a by our transition funzione and the family of the sape of depend the family of model that we.

  

So if we one type of model a starting point for our continuous we have a different function.

  

And in the reverse process we go back from the noise version we rever progressi e image by moving across space.

  

And you can see that we are ostion can also be visuy seen by flick because we not sily removing the noise a you can see noise that we have hi different at each step.

  

And this can be perve as the flickering of the of the input image as we recovered.

  

We're not simply We're not simply dumping down the noise, but we're actually generating a new sample with which still noise.

  

So it still has a different random noise appli , but the vari of noise progressive shifting until we get to zero noise essentially and we optain a clean sample.

  

If this is our reverse problem, in of, ts is no lon discret process. Is differenqua.

  

So w are we going to do to sol it?

  

We going to look our fello engines and phcis w sol differen equa for a living and ask and take one of the me that have been proposed to solve the type of diffl equa to produce e solution.

  

Uually models are not antical, so they're still iterative.

  

But this is a well problem fro which a lot of efficient metal have been develo over time and we can reuse them in or to make our simply more efficiente.

  

So we will take a break, I think, because we have seen a lot of content and after we break weill see howw this will take us from usand hample, one thousand steps th steps because this is what really matters for us today.

  

Why we wait for your league to Finish's call.

  

So before break, we saw how to go from the diffusion model with anterave transformation to a continuous version. Which depend on a still depend of core funtion, which is predicted by by the modelf.

  

But introduce a new version of suastic process, which is a combination of during inf is a comination of due terms.

  

The first term guide is a guidance storm which pushes the trajecto words the regions that have identity.

  

And the o term is a sucastic term which introtroduce some control soca and I'm what am I say in control because thestic element is guide by gated by a function.

  

So during during the reversal process we can graduy diminisce the mount of noise that we are in which in the beginning is use for because it allouss to explore space I don't know if you have seen of rember the concept of Analin, it's amization strategy in which We are no in the beginning, which allo to jump out of local And a we go formiza processmin the so that the problem do set.'s a for of at the bin we lot of so we to exp in the space to the end we are We are moving thec terms, weekend and the score dominate, so we regi of the density is very high.

  

So the formulation res what we have at the beginn of class, which are contin flows.

  

If we reformulate, we can see score differen a a forma of flow matching.

  

In wch we are learning a flow bet due arbitra distributions.

  

One is so distribution, which is our noise distribution.

  

And one is the target distribution which is the data distribution. We can see o score base model as a special case of a flow match in problem where we have a continuo flow of that is gover by the veloelo, which ma to distributions.

  

And surpri if we dove a ga we opta a very simi formulation to score to score mching.

  

In practice, we don't do not learn unconditional velocity, but ain we us a condick and we le velocity which in case condite varia use the condition trick by introdute and variable.

  

So we have now we are introducendo the type of diffusion modelin, we still have same architecture, which takes the input the image and the time step.

  

But instead of predic, inad of predic the score, we predict a pty e continuous function w we used to to move from thetional noise to target distribution.

  

In standard flow m we need to regre questa velocity by us e veloci, which necessa no, but we a we can work out the show And in when we use the condition trick, we are going to to intro thite and verria and on the late and variable, which is the same concept of condition in on a king sample.

  

And we can de strade that the even the objective is the same even the the lost and the objective is different.

  

The optimum is the same.

  

So If we care abt is getting the ottimal ws for our function thatstima velocity, the condition in is sufficiente. Us a different function as i target the due functi can be dete to have same or in this case the massimo.

  

And at in time, what are going to do?

  

We are going to compi the flow up which is the integral of the function of the differenti function which gover by flow.

  

So in questo caso we going to take questa function here and integrate in order to rever back from the time from the time go backwards and reve the times in our in our evolution.

  

The are many tpe of depend on how we estimate the noy on how we generate the noise imagesend starting from the inial image.

  

In direc flow we usa line function.

  

So the nois image is a line interpretion between noise and the original image where line interpretion is goverd by the time step.ach time step will have At the beginning we will have the initial image with the little bit of noise and as the time step goes to infinity, the image is going to become pure noise essssally.

  

Vi velocity is train across all possible ps of noisise and images that produce a given XT Us e standard expetation.

  

So ain we are We are essenti working on the difference between the noise and the original image in order to estimate the velocity.

  

This is a special case of what we have so far.

  

So we can dete that eventually we will have the formulation.

  

If our flo noe follow iner function.

  

The are o choice, i's choice.

  

The noise schedular in the case of flow matching is cold also a flow trajectory be gives us i trajecto the velocity is a conuo funzione. Al input. Think of trajectori schedule.

  

Now, why does this matter for to improve our simpling?

  

Because every ST has also a corrisponding ordiny differen. If we take o so differen or flow m o flow m And we remove the noise compont the optain is a deterministicjectory, which is this white line here.

  

This is given by questa formula and is a differenqua which we can integrate to genera determin proj che go from the from the t data distribution to the no version and back.

  

And the projectori are a deterministi so the can they can be the are direc ver . And can be approssimated.

  

The real benefit comes from tak the sostic differen formulation, which we use in training.

  

And in time, instead of us the stocastic version, we use the determinastic version.

  

If we use the determin version, we have una differen and to make semplice, we can for esempioample, look at nurica.

  

And ts is the most common choice.

  

The are different numeri that we can use to solve differenti equa which have gise to different families of.

  

For esempioample, we to come a TD and DPM solver DPM Solver plus plus.

  

This is actually a family of of meethod.

  

Solv e ordinaaryquation in small number step is a problem che has been stud lot.

  

So we recling all of me in or to our problem. Riformulate problem a a differen and we us me to to sol it faster than integratin steps.

  

The other solutions that we have is instead of solving the problem is training in our network to sol the problem.

  

So we us the numerica to train e network to approxite for function in a fast way.

  

In DDA to give you an idea of how meto work.

  

In DDA, the is to app numeri which is inspired or base on the her metod.

  

Insted of using ti steps, we take bigger steps and we formulate the transition from S2T where is in a step where S is lower, so we taking one step one larger step from S2T and we using questa formula to approssimate approximate the tr ordin differen.

  

We a going to have un error.

  

We are going to have a discri error do effe we're taking a small number of steps.

  

But ually the discretization error is not direcly perceble in the quality dite in images. Even thou we have a discreti error, we can show that we still have a good image.

  

The formula depend on the estimate the output of the Unite, which is in questo case epsion.

  

The image at the step and aes of corrective terms that areted base on the on the coefficiente. One possible app formula we't care a formula we about is that is an approssimation of the actual of the solution of the ordinar differenti equation.

  

So going to sacrifice a lit of quality to improve simply speed.

  

There is a version of DDIM which also include the noise multip by a term e we set the hyper parameter su zero then we going to have una determinc.

  

So give an input noise we always going to optain the same image. Give input we al totain output.

  

The other family of ms is the DPM over family, the are number DPM solver, solver, solver plus There all on more efficient, more effective metal to sol ordine di differenqua, per il tempo rangitta versionista ind.

  

We not going to going to much into detas, but it's importanteant that you know that this family of meethod exist.

  

Because many cases this has become standard solver for a modern diffusion me.

  

He has been showny that a same quality, non so if we keep the qualix, in standard standard DPMDPM model we nely step we can reduce to between 50 e for DD and between 104 the DPM family.

  

So is is effector speed up in a speed up that we can optain thanks to reformulation.

  

Some of the overs have also o properties.

  

So for esempioample, DPM sover family can use for classifier guidance whichfier free guidance. Which is something that we haven't sing it, but we will in a few minutes.

  

So Don't don't worry too much for a moment.

  

In in the case of In the case instead of DD key adventad is that DD AM can be made inverble.

  

So we can go back in time.

  

Why do we like it to be in?

  

For example, we can take a real image.

  

Use int to get la space representation, edit la space representation and move back to the original space. Can use we will not see, we will not but in princip can be use for edi ima.

  

So's a good thing to know exist.

  

The fast me of try to nu improve the problem, try to actually di still a neura network that can prodict that can predict the output of solver at speci time step. Possibilità is to progressive dicition.

  

So we star by by training network that can predict the output of the the sol by dividing the enti inference process in ck.

  

And we progressivi extenbility of the network un princip we can get to that direc regresses the output of the solver. In one step. Which is really good for real time applications or applications where you need close to real time performance really get the same poli or the same high resolution.

  

So this is what we have seen so far. We went from normali flo mchi.

  

We integrate the two concent in flow matching and we use sol inference time more efficien click. Any architec that use the concept, of course.

  

Were all going to see all possi architec.

  

You also have to understand that for some proeta architectu we don really know which type of model us The are some indicazioni per esempio that was basd on flow mching, but we not 100% of the architecture.

  

First stable diffusion, which is in open source model we also have the code and the paper we know that it is based on recfied flow on the reced flow matching.

  

And we respect to stable diffusion one, it has a much higher quality, much higher ability to follow text and ability to scale to high resolution and also ability to generate text, which stable fusion one didn't have.

  

It t to we will see some examples, but it really garb. Garb up the text.

  

What is different between stable diffusion free and stable diffusion one many things?

  

Forse is the architecture.

  

Stable diffusion free doesn't use i uses a pure transformer base architecture.

  

Instead of ha in incoder decoder, we have a DIT e transformer block. Takes in the la diffusione transformer in the firstsion of the la diffusion of the diffusion transformer.

  

It takes input the nois, late and image and the time step with embing.

  

The nois la specified and given transformer whip the no e the standard deviazione.

  

This is possibility in the case of stable diffusion 3 the Reference framework is flow, quindi the output of the transformer will be a flow base model so velocity.

  

I don't kno if will have time to see, to see but all of the different versions flavors of diffusion models that we have seen to far, can be see a special cases of mon framework. Even we have seen differentions, it can be show that they ay just different flavors of the same frameworks.

  

So in diffusion 3 we replace la Unite with transformer base and coder.

  

The transformer has more parameters with rect to convolutions.

  

It has a betbility to scale to larger datas and will res in generally speaking higher quality.

  

The architectues multimoel tex plus images and the in thexder wic to is è complex.

  

Inad of us one tex clip in diffusion in use text coders in para theunt of param and the w of the model is much.

  

But also the ability to follow the prompt is because the quality of the the way that the caption is incorde is much. Hier.

  

And we replace theDPM with direcfied flows for improved train stabilities and fa.

  

Inon 3 the lot on design a good. The way that we reext for quality of the image and we also have a trade off between how much computations, we investi in and the quality of the images that we optay.

  

But stable diffusion tek has properties that stable diffusion one a difficties. For exampample, we can control the text is going to appear in the image and say something that stable diffusion. Wast able to do.

  

Even if you train it with the type of captions, will not generate a good quality images.

  

And it also has a better ability to follow complex, complex pronce, but also to achieve something that generally called composition or compositional generability.

  

The capaci to take concep that have never se togher before and actually them in apposible w So we can ask for the hyb creature that is a mix of a waffle and a hipopoamo and there's no way that The model has seen the combination of concept before.

  

Via ability to combine concept from different context into appusible output is one of the mark of human intelligence and the scale which the model was train sort of the capability.

  

These are example that we taken from the original paper, so I think there's also distant mount of cherry pick of the examples. Are examples that we generated us consumer GPU, so the are the quality because we intentially downgrade the resution.

  

They compare different versions of stable diffusion on benchmark, which is tifa.

  

Thi benchmark was design to test specifi properties, quindi a stand on which we can eval diffusion models.

  

Quse pros, for esempioample, asks to understand we the model can generate specific concept or text, for esempioample e stop si stable is the only model che genera the stop the writing stop correct wi generating some garbage that looks like stop, but is not exactly correct.

  

Qu ti of F test faibility to put toger to a sci specifi color specific object, for esempio Aellow and blue bus so you can see that stable all of free versions can actually pick the color combination but somehow in these case stable diffusion free has better better form.

  

Some venture test for ausal combinations of concept for esempio e ph of the sud and a bear where the bear is sud case and also test for a corre special reason w the model is cable rang the elements according to relationships imply by text.

  

In some case early can necessa comb concept that were re se tog e nel sud case una combination. In plant is a combination. Special reason is al very diult for model. In tr case è one che can the special arrangement imp by the caption and the o element is that usually the typ of venturemar test is the the model can can separate stle from content.

  

So in this cast asking something that rey strange era cooll clot with a top hat and a garbage back, which is very combination, but also in specific style, which is the style of ocui.

  

In this case, I have to save the model that cn't working on do better but ts is reall we can see element of the Japanese style, for example here and also here.

  

I wouldn't necessy chcze as, but there in a way they look more likeap painting or drowing than the over 2.

  

To give your perspective, stable diffusion one5 was using56 in Nvidia GPU. On Amazon Web services for a total of 0000 GPU hours. On that a lot. That a lot on a data said which is collion, which contains billions of ps of images and text description that wasde from internet.

  

Some case captions can also be generated shelly us vision language modern.

  

Stable diffusion free with don't realling.

  

I don't really know.

  

I couldn't find any information in time for today. Certain larger diffusion was fine tuned on images that were consider estetilly please.

  

So at theards of the end of of the training.

  

There was also fine tuneing on images that receive the high score rating on visuals.

  

Because the lot of the images that are scraped in thesec datas are not very h quality.

  

So they don't necessa generate visuy appleasing pleasing images which is what w type of model typil.y time to I did cherpik some of some of the all the rest are so good, al fusion.

  

But t general Tennesse is also reflected in the automated that we computed formark.

  

So we so how by a different formulation and a different architettura we were able to improve the model and also make the semplice more efficiente.

  

May, if we can make the semplice more efficiente, can also the more complex model we have to do less If we have to do law num of model evaluation we aff touse much more complex model with more peters, e transformer base model.

  

But today I also promised that we would say something on how to condition and guide the model without rein.

  

So our go at the or at, if not without totay without re training by U in mount of reces which is compatible with what has normal human bean have on the planet, which is not,56 GPU for a few days .

  

In most of today we have how to improve the generation process by from un conditional perspective, but what we want to do is always form of conditional generation dovere is a condi varia which per tempo is a caption.

  

So in most of we have to caption.

  

Stable diffusion ory has a caption, so it is train to build a conditional generation.

  

But at the same time, the model is base on a certain condition sign.

  

So if we want to change or tw, the condition sign, weld have to retrain the entire model And ts is complicated to do.

  

So what we want to under is can we somew control the consisten between the generated image and the condition can we make the image clos to decation as possibile.

  

And can we also stear generation of the model that has already train, so we cannot change it or at we can change it but on reasonable budget.

  

The first approach to Yes.

  

Ok, by consisteny we mean how faiful the image is to the caption.

  

So in this case for the cam a ph of a fire hyt and pot plant the po plant is a fire ht.

  

We would ex an image that is consistente to include both the fire hdt and the plan for a temple the first image doesn't really include i plan. Include plant, but it's not a pot plan .

  

We would also want the image to mantain to be consist with the special arrangement.

  

So in this case we have a plan, but the po plan is next to rere hi we won expected to be above.

  

This ima is also is more consistente but at the same time it sort of mgesly too concept and which build a irrealistic model.

  

Mmm.

  

Yes.

  

Certainly I think it's eer to thi typles in a incremental way.

  

So it eer to say that the the three images are incre more consistent.

  

It is more difficult to say to major consisten in an absol way. W would the perfect consistently ima look like we will not see today how to measure, so we will give a definition an intuitive definition of consisten How actually measure, which banchmarks areing and how do it.

  

It's sort of an open problem.

  

So it still subject of research. Ultim often it is base on human. Preference.

  

So if we have time of course, we can discuss also some benworks and some matrics that have been propose to look at.

  

But today we will we will adop the more intuitive definition.

  

Now that there are some way to meas and ultimately one of the possible way to measuret just as people. Them to rate and see which which is more consistente and major their preferences.

  

So a lot of ad end of day a lot of a lot of papers what they do is actually they actually measure human preference.

  

But t is very good question.

  

To the point that I was thinking of the devote in entire elec just this point because it's so important and so gi.

  

So the first idea to stear the The generation process was on classifier guidance.

  

Since we are we can cample in different and we have so far how to how to ste or to make it more efficiente.

  

We can also choose to stear, in order to make the image cloloser moraline to condition inner or or less line.

  

How can we do it?

  

The first the first type of problem typ of tech was base on the on the computation of the conditional score.

  

We are interested into the condition in vegention of the image with respect to the to the condition.

  

But we know that we can express it, we can beformulamulaties as the function of the probability of observing a certain condition in single base on ex.

  

Wh because we applive the bias.

  

So we know that b the bias we can reformulate the conditional score of to as the function of the conditi score of C wic to X .

  

And we are working in log space becomes a some of different terms.

  

One term, one term will depend on on the derity with respect the input of the condition signal which è zero because the condition signal is inpendent of of the image is just of the input image.

  

And the o a the uncontional score the probability of observing a certain image.

  

Plus over which is agredient of the classifier which learn to predict int in from noise image.

  

So if we don't have the we have only a model that is train on the uncontional score, and we don't want to rein, but we want to condition somew the generation. We could do in princip is train ficare whi predic the conditi from input.

  

This classifire is thence time to stere to change the score function that we use for the inference process.

  

So in us the score function adicted the problem, we mofied by ad the gredient of the classifier multip by w If the wal sorrider mista.

  

If the No, it's.

  

If the way is e to one, this is exactly a conditional core.

  

So it we recover exactly a probability of of agiven.

  

If the wait is higher th one, we push the fidelity, we incree the fidelity, for the moment forget a la diversity, we will back to.

  

If the wait is swer then one, we don't wait the classifier we can Forse the generated image to be closer or to be closer to be signal.

  

O course, the closer we get we lose in terms of quality and diversity.

  

So the diffusion model will generate.

  

Images a very very closech.cause we are really pushing to words one particolar version of the image.

  

Classifier guidance have a lot of didn't have a lot of success. Most because we have to train this classifire and we have to train for all possible noise levels, which makes it very expsive because instead of not only we have to train this classifire, but we also have to train it on images that have very in level of noise.

  

And we have to give the noise as input to the model, so really need to le a different function for each level.

  

E must work imput that bed.

  

So's to train good classifier in this way.

  

And it's also difficult to train the classifier on exc the same type of data on which the diffusion model was.

  

So we mi have a distribuzionemat between the data on which the diffusion model was and the data on wre was.

  

What we di next wasp the the genera, but the classifi and introduce classifier free guidance.

  

Which is a clic that is used in a lot of model It was already used in stable diffusion 5.

  

And we also introduce in the la because we found that it's not so easy to produce high quality images even at very log solution wi without it.

  

So Ike idea is to apply a same transformation but more in that can do un eff condition wout an explici Train ere that predi the condition starting from ex use bias ain to say that condition is actu base on the division between due term.

  

One is a conditional representation and one is the unconditional representation.

  

So in princip, we need to have due versions of fusion.

  

One w takes in the count prompt and compiute the conditional model and is the conditional model and one which is train without the prompt and is in un conditional model.

  

In practice we can achieve same goal by using a single model to train to compi by sily that the unconditional score can be optain by a signing un e token to the conditional to the condi. We train the conditional model, but sometimes we randomly suppd the condition sign and so we optain a model that can optain a version of the model that can working ways.

  

We can it to generated e conditional score, but we can also use it to generate and unditional score.

  

So a training time, what we do?

  

We random liplace the condition instingnal.

  

For esempio, if we have a caption. We randomly drop the caption and sostit with an e set of tokens.

  

How af we do it?

  

Tipically this is an hi parameters, so we can choose. Ticay we% we d't need to learn as good conditional generation as we need to learn a good conditional generation. 100% is a good cice.

  

And at in time, we compiuto the score of o model, which use to sle the images as a line combination of the conditional and unconditional score.

  

Questa combination is guide by a parameter, which is the classifi guidance.

  

If we classire we zero or we recover the conditional or recontional score.

  

And if we nung between, we can decidere how how to progressi strent of the guidance.

  

If we incree the guidance, we incree the fideli, we increase the consisten withct to prompt, but sometimes that we lead to Law quality images or to images that are to simlar titch out.

  

Una question that I had is why do classifre free guidance improve fidelity.

  

Can we just train the conditional model we with it?

  

Why do a introduce questo?

  

There is a reas for questo and the the problem is that when we train a classifier to the probability of giv i giv a concept or giv a condition The model to learn to avge across the entire distribution of images.

  

So If we train an image to for example, if we have the ction a ph of the dog, the model will tenend to converge to word a neverage image of dogs.

  

And an ege of one thousand image of dogs is something that he plury and not very high quality.

  

If use classifire be very and generi.

  

If we use classifire free guidance, we pus the usematical trick to push generation words score, which is highly consystem with t specific caption and move it far away from o type of images which a presented by the conditional generation. Promo what is call the moding be that cong on the pix of the distribution and does really ege across manples.

  

So it will produce sharper images that are more faiful to the actual condition.

  

So classifier free guidance is a staple of many modern diffusion models because i's. To implement.

  

Just drop decation of the time. Implemen be have to do due predizioni e compi av and produce shper and hi quality images.

  

But does reall change the model.

  

So we classifire free guidance, we can improve the quality of generate images w we cannot change a type of condition.

  

So if we have on a tex prompt, we cannot really use for esempio a segmentation to guide the generation process.

  

So the o family the other family of meho that have been proposed is base on the concept of a.

  

H the dea is to keep the diffusion model fixed, but to learn in compont which is much small th the enti diffusion model. And lear to the generation on signal which was not presen in the original stable diffusion the original stable diffusion.

  

For esempioample, control we wile example of this family of model, which is contro that can be use to control to condition the generation an special input per esempio, we condition the generation edge m we condition the generation on.

  

You cane that all the images generated are consistent with the input p.

  

And the condition can be base on the special input all or can be al combine with the text of description.

  

So for example, we can generate a Lincoln Sta that has is consisted with the input post.

  

This going to be something veryful for that could be poally very useful for applications in computer graphics in multimedia because we can condition in a very precise way the composition of image.

  

So how do it?

  

We introduce ano model contronet whichins a train copy which mirors, some of the blocks in stable diffusion.

  

And introduce copy, esempio in this case, we have 2, thre, five blocks for which we have a copy.

  

So we shoes which by experiment which blocks we need to copy.

  

The base modern is Frozen.

  

We only train the copy.

  

The copy takes the input the additional conditioning, which is not given to be origin the original block.

  

And we use the output of these copy of the Unit as intional we summit to the imput of the the decoder in order to sti decod to the desire desire.

  

Reme we not working in the input space We working in vce if images for in the space is going to be much smale 644.

  

So we need to maed to usare Italian, usy a coule of convolutier, not, which compresses the origin for example our posemap into a 64 by 64 T. And this is going to be the input of to the control.

  

Then the trainable copy uses zero convolutions to gate the signal from the Connet to the decoder in the investible diffusion Unite.

  

The stable diffusion Unite has a cross attention, so we using the cross attention that is already just just a new input.

  

And the controt is the ap is train in order to produce the correction. Block frozen, the has to ap to produce the for the cross to generate the image that is required.

  

Zero convolution are convolution laers that are zero.

  

So in the beginning of the training they dot affect So queste allo stabilizzare il training before weed the output of the contro inside the coder.

  

And allouse the copy of the block to essentially at the beginning learn to miror the w of the behavor of the origin of the original model. Before we actu learn how to stear the generation graduy.

  

This is needed because in the beginn the componenti is going to be very noisy and we don't want that noise to destroy the good feat that were train on the6.

  

GP use for a thousand of ho before a the begning of train.

  

So the can be use to condition base on many signals. Esempio, we can train a control to condition base on a skch We can train a control to condition base on a normal mp on a deathmap on on age detection we can tra i differenes we can train i base on seman segmentation we can train bason pose Each of of the control will condition bas specifial.

  

And if I can also comb different contronets in order to combine multiple input sign but eput require e l'a e control a.

  

The are oice with for I a a alternati.

  

I usare reference image a stle condition, whi the tex control out in content.

  

The us extrated from a control signal and injson into the Unite and coder.oth adoptor are fu param, control like qui use to cop part of the architecture.

  

So it has a lot of parameters. Usually has more control over the generate images and more expressive but require also a hire train time.

  

We will not see today, I think we will se next week how to do to find to the network, how to the network.

  

So what we have so far is how to usecifire free guidance to ste the generation during samp and how to use an ap tot the possibility of an stable diffusion model.

  

What the a can not do is change the textion?

  

For esempioample, change the way that the stable diffusion map the tex to content. That is in in how the network is So we will not can not do it using disple.

  

Controls but you can ave very good result on special condition, so how to condition base on on the images.

  

Before we call it today, I just wanted to reason a bit more on the concept of consisten and fidelity.

  

If we express in qualitative terms what we would like our generative image model to do for any generative model al for tipe of s I think we have generally free main desiderata.

  

One is to generate quality realisticamp.

  

And this is something that we have So far But we also know that specially early version so stable diffusions were not necessi.y always that great.

  

For a tempo a commontfall of type of model is to generate strange lis for example for a long time diffusion models struggle to generate to understand that a human hand has five fingers, not, not te, not fi So that type of property is only only learnd with more models even then sometimes there models still produce strange lim o strange combinations.

  

We want model to be consistente.

  

So if we ask for plan on top of the id, we want i plan to be on top of the idt, not next to not behind, not somewhere in the not behind, not below.

  

But we al want to produce the vers samples.

  

We don't want our model to always give us the same result.

  

O funing that, the creative component.

  

We like the fat that if we keep asking for images we give in prompt, we are given variations of the same image.

  

And this is the ability that we explo because sometimes the first version that we get is what we wanted.

  

So we want to keep try.

  

And one question that is at the state of the art models favor, one of the desiderata over the. Are we will not getting to how we can meure realismom consisten and diversity, there are metrics that we can use for all of these properties .

  

They are perfect metrics, there not we haven't really figurid out, the same 100%.

  

But the a metrics that we can use. Problem here that I'mzy is over there's a trade off.

  

So can we have a model that generate high quality consistentse input or we have to sacrifice one to have the over?

  

Generally speaking what emerges so far ey from the leture is that takes to ima generation is multiojective problem, so we have at least the quanties that we want to ad let free quantities that we have to maximize and when we have multiple objective that poy are in conflit to one another usy have what is called parato front.

  

The are in front me the best can do to find a balance between le due objecti. Are solutions that maximize one of the due ojecti, but not necessassy other.

  

The are solutions that are dominate, for the sol the blue solutions are dominated by the solutions.

  

We can find solutions that are better for both in term of the the second ojective and both withct first obje.

  

But are al solutions for front that are not dominated.

  

So If we move long front, we need to sacrifice one for the other.

  

Classifi free guidance will for example. Offre as a guidance scale and usuy the guidance sle will move across the line like this. On extreme we have very maze diversity and the other stream we maximize how well, how clos the image is to the recation.

  

There is a recent study was published the couple of years ago on archive, which tested a bal different models of different families.

  

Across different metrics, reali diversity and consisten and try to understand how the model faired in different conditi al us in different form of, different in different in different configurations in terms of the properties.

  

And what emerges is that there is not really trade off between consistency and realism.

  

We can achieve solutions that improve both consistency and realis at the same time and usually this are posi correlated, but there is a trade of between diversity and consistency.

  

The are to examples the prompt is the same in all cases and for each row we have five images generated by the same model.

  

Ually the models are anonimized becauseen we ask people which do you think is best.

  

And if they know which models, the imach is come from, they might be biast.

  

Naively or intentially, because there is are also leaderard to try to push specific model or lower.

  

In this cases, we have to example in which we can clearly see that diversity that the each model has very has very different properties in terms of diversity. First is the most diversi ter of the type images that are generated.

  

The last road has the most sinu images. For esempio, in the last road here there is a dog holding a fbe in.

  

You can see that the dog is always the same.

  

The dog is always in contex, the frisbee has always the same shape, the frisbee has always the same core. The second roll for esempioample has different type of dol, different type of, color, different, but the quality and the consis with the prompt is lower.

  

Not There are artifecs also in the best thi case because hold in a frisbee mouth the dog here for example is not really holding something it's mouth.

  

It's more like the frisbee sw to to dogs.

  

But certain better than here where are multip freeb or here where theb a more of the color. Or per esempiole, here where there is a person holding the frisbee and giving it to a dog, which is not what the caption intended?

  

If we go to the first row, whe we have more diversity, but in some many case we don't really have frisbee or in some case also the dog very.

  

And a very quality.

  

And the same we can say for fing the sky of bridge. Here the bridge is the bridge is.

  

Also we can see that the type of ski al s if we at the first ex, we can see different of bges, different ski, but for esempio, the number of is not always.

  

Somem of these results are actually consis with decation and but it looks like they almost by accident because if we look a different iterarations we will very different images.

  

So this is what we mean by a diversity consistenza trade of. And depend on the specifica application, you mi need to one objective or the o If you want to generate realistic examp, you need to have hi cons.

  

If you want to exploration of the possible solution space, if you look for ide th you might want to to look for better diversity and and that to not look okay or not consistente.

  

And different models we do different things.

  

So for example, and also different configurations or different training or difference of the s model be position in different points of the of optimization space.

  

Per esempiole, here all the Blue points are sble diffusion 2.1 and all the green points are stable diffusion stable diffusion Xel which is a version of stable diffusion that we have seen.

  

But we can see a pattern, the most recent model, stable diffusion Excel is a more recent model.

  

They to have high higher but lower diversity wict to the o model.

  

That couldnt same level of consisten but then to generate more verse patters.

  

So I think that's it for today we are closed five minutes from seven pm, so I'm going to stop here. Still have to look at if 

  

  

La trascrizione è stata [utile](applenotes://transcriptionFeedback?isPositive=1&attachmentID=0151F585-7147-421A-8EAB-22EFBC73DCD1) o [inutile](applenotes://transcriptionFeedback?isPositive=0&attachmentID=0151F585-7147-421A-8EAB-22EFBC73DCD1)?