
---
## Transcript


Welcome back.

  

Today we are going to switch topic for a moment, so were not going totinue working on generative models like a diffusion models or, but we're going to switch to slighty different topic which is rain first learning.

  

I don't know if some of you have in counred this type of learning before in their courses No, soday è going to be a short primer on rainforn This is a very huge very huge topic with many potential applications.

  

We are not going to to do apresive treatment of rest lening, which would require an entire course on ogni tone.

  

But we going to see the al and more important we going to understand How we can design an agent the learn from experience and why it can be beneficial for the topics that werestinto.se, from perspective, we going to focus mostly on which applications we have in graphics and multimedia.

  

So not all applications of brain force the learning.

  

What exactly is rain force learning?

  

We learn from interactin with our environment.

  

Most of the learning process that we have far in artificial intelligence have been e learning from suon.

  

So we provide label examp and we learn toally fit and function base on those examples.

  

Or we can learn to a data distribution us some form of generative AI.

  

We have seen many type of differen generative systems, but we have also seen that all of them eventually try to learn a data distribution.

  

In rain first and learning, what we trying to do is learn from interactive with an environment.

  

So it can be considerate form of active learning in which we have a goal, So the type of learning is god directed that we want to achieve. We t different actions and we see howsections get a closer to the gold that we want to achieve.

  

And by and how can we the termine w we getting closer to go by base regnal.

  

So the enviment give us a reward A good reward for good action and be reward for action and by lening how to maxi reard we going to learhich acti are most beneficial in which. What we will see a policy for our agen.

  

At very hi level alinforce lening a base on anteraction loop in which we have agent represd by our fendly our friendly robot.

  

And on thede we have an enronment.

  

We can have many type of environment for example a common environment is For tempo in artificial environment created using for tempo unity.

  

So in this case our environment is for a tempole a game. Which can be free di environment or to the environment.

  

So we can have different type of word in which we aremerse.

  

The agent will observe the environment and base on the observation will recrete estate estate of the environment, but we certain ex state of the agent.

  

The agent will perforce un action on the environment and the action will maniplate will change the enviment and base on the maniption it will get reward.

  

And the gome is to optimize some rews that we get th reted interactions.

  

Howe we cannot do it we cannot do it direcly in are incent in a superze fahion a we have done before because the environment per is not diff.

  

So we need tostruct a matema system that wel allo to represent this interaction and to learn from this interaction.

  

At the bas of these type of learning is an ips that the generic objective of maximizing reward in rewards of the auters of of these paper, which who were one of the main proponens of the reforce learning That the generato ojctive maximizer reward is en to drive behavior that avit most if not all abilities that are stated in natural and artificial intelligence.

  

This is a b statement.

  

I do not necessy agree or disagree with statement.

  

I think We are probably over reaching base on the evidence that we have so far.

  

But over idea is that eventually all the behaviors that we that we assimiulate to intelligence can emerge by maximiz song reward.

  

So that's the underline ipotes.

  

Under the ipotesies, rainforce me learning would be universal learning to could potally be used to learn all possible behas.

  

Regardless wver ipotesies is th or not from our purposes, which are pratical.

  

The are many many goals that can be formulaze as maximizing as the outcome of maximizing the comm reward, if we know how to sap reward.

  

So as we will see today and also he will see pratically the lab decide how to forlize this reward is one of the most diffit part of rainforce learning.

  

Why rainforce learning is particolar use for for us?

  

Rain for learning is quite cost.

  

So we to use reinforcement learning in to solve problems that we cant e solved th supervis or supervis learning.

  

For esempioample, learning to find solutions su problem.

  

Learning to play chess, learning to play Atari, learning to play Learning to drive a car can be one of these problem.

  

Learning complex beha for which we don't necessaramente have direct supervision for esempioample, learning the behavor of a non character t can play alg other character in again.

  

Rain for learning is also useful to apt online, to un for sc circonses.

  

So forample, not only learning to play certain game, but also learn to play a certain game in a way that maximies or apted or adate self opponent of the game. For esempioample, learning for a chatbot to imitate or to talor restyle of responses to individual users.

  

And thi is a type of behav that we getting used to in our the daily interactions when we use, copilot or Gemina we a abot has been trainning to to apt itself to the references of human users and eventually also individual users.

  

Rainforce the learning can use to do both.

  

Find solutions is something that we can do so cald offline.

  

So we lear policy and then we appli.

  

If you want to adap online, we also have to go atin learning, which we will see, but poteny can be possible using rain fional learning.

  

So before going to the, I would like to see a cle of a couple of examples if Okay.

  

This is the humanid robot by Boston Dynamics.

  

And are some of the movement that the robot has been train to do.

  

Training the type of systems require at the state of the artis on th reinforcement learning.

  

Andossible also veryinfor learning which we will see today which calle imitation learning.

  

Pepically thisms are not train directly on the robot because I would be extrem extensive, but the training simulations.

  

So you have a virtual environment which repreens a virtual agens, whichen Word and a system that simulate the dinnamics of the robot and the environment.

  

They can also be train to imitate a human do in a certa action.

  

And then these polices are taken from the virtual environment to the real environment to the robot and for the refind to account for the actual physics of the robot and also the different the differen between the robot , the robot realnamic and the simulatenamics.

  

We not going to see how to go from the real from the virtual to real environment because our goal is really to work to train system to work in a simulated environment.

  

So for example, to learn how to sold games.

  

This is a snapshot of dep mind of deep mind agent, which is called Alpha Star.

  

It's an agent of a family of Alpha system that has been traind to solve the Starcraft game.

  

Games are very very active for tile area of research for rain force learning.

  

Not necessaarly because games are the only application of rain for learning, but because they provide award that is simp than our word I can be made arbitraylicated.

  

So you can start very simple to the games and you can move on to very complex th dimensional games and require, very much more softed and un'di. And undible strate.

  

So there is a lot of rearch on how sol games and how to play agent that can play train agent that can outp or out per for human players in different type of games.

  

We will not see the video, but you can wat it on YouTube it.

  

It's too long to see today.

  

In over area, which is also vintere for us, so we will we will see some examples next week. Is learning from human feedback.

  

So last last week where we so the evolution from stable diffusion one to stable diffusion free was a begin of a discussion, how we valuate diffusion models, how decide whi version diffusion model is best.

  

How do we decide w we like certain image better than the other?

  

This is a topic on which we will come back because it's an interesting and wild range in topic, but ultimtely the eas way to determine give an image is better one is through human feedback.

  

This is true for images, is also true for the te text.

  

So the best way to determine given ans is going to be acceptable or attractive for human is to ask the human themselves.

  

And if we ask suffici number of humans, we can use this information to train also train reinforce and learning e language model or anma generation model.

  

This has been done for example in chat, struct, cloud, Gemini Hyder, they all have a training from human feedback face.

  

Raince in this case we don't need to understand what makes a good answer to human.

  

We just need to collect the feedback from the user from the human.

  

And the chatbot will interact with that feedback and bas on the feedback we learn to just the ans gives.

  

Inspect rainforce learning is different with respect to supervise learning because even if the goal is the same to generate tex, we don't have a fix train in s we don't have a fix labels, but we can learn by interac with the user. We come back example and see better how is a chi.

  

In other property of rainforce the learning is that interactions and decisions are sequenti.

  

So in agent can learn to can learn to Predict the next decision, predict next action not only based on the curent state, but also base on past interactions.

  

And if can learn a policy that accounts for how it's a decision affect the future interaction.

  

And they also lead to agents that can maximize a go over time and matain e better better interaction style throughs e longer context window e higher number of back and for.

  

So motiva, ex providono due motivations for incorpo rain for lening in generative A curriculum because we not in panning or robotics, th are not o interest. Intere and so we will look at rainfor lening from the lences of how can we train and on playing charac, how can we train an agent to move in a virtual environment and how can we incorporate human feedback?

  

Inside the inside a generative model and are going to be o motiva problems for tato.

  

Ow we to red the cinforce lening and spend il resto of o time work on distopic.

  

That said, today we will look a little bit at two parts.

  

The first part will be framing wi problem and we will do short hands on problem, a very a short group excize on .

  

And the second part will be dedicated to understanding the tour freein al that can be used in grain forcening.

  

The aretons of different, so we will just see af you.

  

Quindi let start by formalizing a bit our problem.

  

So as you can see we have our interaction loop.

  

Qu interaction loop is sequential, so we have an oce of time that passes.

  

A time step, which we go te, the agent receives and obervation and also receives a reward that is dependent on the test interactions, so on the actions that weere performed that previus timeceps.

  

Base on the observation and the word, the agent decides which action to do and excute the action.

  

For esempioample, if the agent is moving, if the goal of the agent is to find the location in this virtual environment, decision will be in w direction to go.

  

And the action will be to move physically the agent in the virtual environment.

  

So we will have a piece of code that actually changes the position on thevironment base on the action that the agent decide to do.

  

Vervironment will receive this action and upte the observation.

  

So if the agent is mo the agent willy see a different screenshot.

  

So the environment will to the agent, the screenshot base on the corrent location.

  

And we will talk more in detail on how we can implement observations in practice, but for the purose of these of the the accecize we can think that the the obervation could be actually be a camera mounted on the the agent that see the environment.

  

And if the agent changes position, the camera changes position with the agent, so the the agent will see a different environment and will receive these observation.

  

The environment will is also responsible for the agent.

  

For esempio, if the goal of the agent is to re target very word could be a signal that determina w the agent rech the target or not.

  

So i could be for esempio zero If the agent didn't reach the target and one if the agent the target itself.

  

The reward is is a feedback sinal that indicate howell the agen is doing.

  

So it the God is def impliy bason on the word.

  

The altri dreams that we will see today are how to use the word to learn how to a good action.

  

But very word is in all the problems we will see today, we will assume that the word is hand engine. Some has decide very funtion.

  

And base on the funtion that we engine, we will promo certactions and repress over actions.

  

The agent will observe in a what we normal call the train in episodio. That has a certain duration.

  

The agent will interact for a certain duration of time.

  

At each time will collect certain reward and at the end of the episode you will have what is called thetive reward, which is the sumer reward that a optain at eachvidule step.

  

And goal of the agent is to maximize the total reward that has accumulated through out the episode or through out the simulation.

  

Given there are many ways that we can find his problem.

  

If we assume that the agent is in as state S and that the agent performs an action A good way to formulate problem is to define what we call a value function. That depends on the action that the agent has taken in the past.

  

And essally predict the expected total work I give in time step base on the history.

  

So sad of defing the total reward as simply the some.

  

We define it in a interactive way starting from the corrent state. And possily also base on the action.

  

So in this case, in this formulation, the value is dependent only unstate in some other formulations you will see that the value also dep on the action.

  

The value def the utility of the state.

  

The agent is in a good state is the value of that state is high. That means that the expected the the total reward that the agent can expect from that state is very high. Return and val can be def resi.

  

So if we know the value or the reard time point, we can estimate the the return or the value at subse time step by simply the at the give time step.

  

So This will simply say that the reward the total reward a time plus1 is to total reward at the priy pward obs the agent in that partilar time.

  

We will see many, but most all of them will try to balance forms of learning, which are called explotation and exploration.

  

Exptation, essentially to maximize the performance bas on what we corrently.

  

It can be effective, but it can also lead to primay conver to bason what we alrey know.

  

And can to henomen that are to over fitti because in many cases, in many tpical problems of reinforce learning, ourme horizon is y.

  

So the conquist of an action can be manifest not immediatelly, but can take a while.

  

We can take a while to observe the longer ramifications of decision.

  

So it's hard to predict sometimes what will cause eventually a high reward world the end of simulation base of the information that we also far.

  

Which is why many rainforce algories also will try to promote exploration .

  

Exploration means taking actions even if they d't necessa maximi maximize the current reward. To learn about the environment.

  

So we don don't know what weill happen if we take sins, so we t and we obs res and we implicitely learn something about the environment in which we And we use that information later to to maximize our global world.

  

In other words by exploring, we can, we can take sh term sacrifices that can lead to ladger games toro out in the future.

  

So the two main compons in rainforce and learning are always the agent and the environment.

  

We will see to telly in the lab will exploregs and ingen he will have truly two compon, which is unity and one which is the trainer.

  

And the two component will be even in different different systems and different languages even.

  

So different implementation languages.

  

The agent has a state which can be explicitelly model or not.

  

Bas on the state it will astimate an action and the policy.

  

A policy as we will see is a criteria to decide actions to take. Can be for example the probability of can be for example probability a to e possibile action, but we will come to..

  

And the agent observe and recee reward from the environment.

  

The some of all obervati, all actions, actions perfor, all reard perform up to point is what is the history. Histo is full sequence of obervations actions and rewards.

  

Which in practice we made not need to save exly, but we us to construct the agen state.

  

So the agen will be the information that we need to manin.

  

Andpend on the type of al that we need to use, we may implicity mod some of the pars or all of them.

  

So per esempioample, we will not necessafly always use estateful agent.

  

The environment state on the overhand is the environment internonal state, which is usually not visible to the agent.

  

If it's visible, it may contain lots of relevante information.

  

Ing it will be up to us to decide which elements of the state are visible to which elements of the environment are visible to age and not.

  

Genery speaking, we have two main type of problems.

  

In one type of problems, we absumed that the environment is ful the obsble, the agent kno everything about the environment at all times.

  

For esempio, if we have non playing ch and non play character complete of the game.pend on how implementad on the complexity of the game.

  

It be a assuntion that non playing character knows has poteny access to the complete state of the game, especially if the game, for esempioample to this can be relately easy to implement.

  

In other cas we have to make assuntion that the environment is only parall ob.vible.

  

For esempioample, if we have a robot with camer, with camera vision, the robot will only see one partle di environment a given in time.

  

And we' not be able to see what happen in behind.

  

Since we are dealing with we are not dealing with robotics.

  

This is probably not going to be a huge problem for the type of tasks and the redly type of simple things that we can that we can do, but this is also something that we will test in the in the lab.

  

So depend on questa situation, if the agents the full environment state, we can that the observation and the environment state can be equal.

  

So even if the oberva are axi for thevironment state, they can be observe.

  

If the agent a cannot observe as limited visibility, we need to assume that the observation does not coinside with environment state and this will make the learning process more complicated because the poally the robot will the agent will require more effort to understand how the is to not only understand, but also to remember how the environment is shap.

  

From the point of view of From the point of view of the rain for learning, we define the problem as a combination of a the tale of elements that we need to understand or to decide how to model.

  

Thise taple represents a mark of decision process if we make the assution that the model is fly of the word is fully observable, if the environment is fully observable.

  

We will see a minute why this is important.

  

We have to define proly define a rainforce learning, we have to def things,ally. State space.

  

We are all the possible state in whichy agent can bin.

  

For example, if we are a train in agent to sol a 2 game, for example, a simple navigation to the game .

  

The board configuration will be state of the agent.

  

If we are learning how to to manipote robotic arm, the joint ang will the curenjoy angs will be state of the state of the of the agent.

  

The action space defin all the decisions, the agen can take.

  

Forle, if we are moving in dimensional board, are ac that can do?

  

We can move left right up or down There's not much more than we can do.

  

If we want to move our joint angs, we need to appork Twitch joint. And are reactions that per.

  

And a can see the acti can be descreto.

  

So it up to us to def the action isw the action is maniplate.

  

Then we need the transition model, the transition modelsent the model that put the agent from a given state to the next state base on the action that the agent h staken.

  

For esempio, if we have a certa board configuration and we move the agent up, the new board will the state transition model will update the agen position base on the action.

  

If we have roboti arm, la transition model wilve to app i work to the joint angle and predict where the joint will be at the next ste steps.

  

The transition model can be probabilistic or can be deterministi.

  

In the most in the most gener formulation, the transition model is a probabili, but i can be determin, so we can have a funtion that a sci value.

  

Then we have reward.

  

So the agent.

  

Per esempio in ourardboard configuration, if the agent to move to target, the can be w spike when the agent is the target. We could for esempio, a reard bas the distan from the target.

  

If assume that mak the asstion that the agen can the target, then we can also assign a target Use thistan to estimator word which which ward the agent forgetting closer to the target and penalize and gives the palty to the agent for getting away from the target.

  

Then we can also def count facture, which is a value between zero e that decide how much the agent cares about future reards vers immediace.

  

So if the agent this, it can toll short on pa in view of high reward. Ex si we do when we grow up.

  

We learn control and we are a to the ability which we don't have us as child to tollerate shortg pain in order to get a gat reward later, sos is also something sim to what we do.

  

Why do we care about the the problem been e Mark of Chain?

  

Because e Mark of Chain ins that the future is inpendent of the past given the state .

  

Many reinforce learning algorit make the assution that if we know know the present state is sufficiente to predict how the agent will move in the which state the agent will be in the next in ex state reg in next time step regardless of the regardless of the of the history.

  

This is much easer to achieve if the agent has complete observation.

  

If the agent doesn't have complete obervation of the environment, it must mantain a belief state about the state of of the environment, so that can satisfied mark of property, which is much hard.

  

We will not see much We will see some example of rain for the learn algorite, but our goal is not necessay to cos designcipe of which are already implementad in the will find al ready implementad in the tools that we will use.

  

But it is importante that we understand how they work because that will guide us in design in the agen itself.

  

To the most importanting that we need to underand how to model is the policy.

  

The policy can be as agent brain. Is the compont which can be deterministic or probabilistic that m the curent state to the action.

  

So decide which action the agen going to take next or better it the sidesong all possible actions that the agent can take which are which should be a high probability, so which one sh be selected with a higher probability and which on are not good actions and should be disd .

  

If the police is the terministic give a certain state, we will always do same action, so example, always go right.

  

If the Le poli stostic, the agent will determinabili distribution and then we will need to sample from distribution in order to the decide to do.

  

This is usually the type of policy that we will consider .

  

So our goal will be to decide how to learn this policy to be able to learn a policy. Base on the value function.

  

So we will the essalctions, the state value function with depends on the state. Which is interesting but not so much.

  

What is really interesting for us is the expectedmula reward that we opta when we take ain action in a given state.

  

Because that is what the agent really cares about.

  

I have three possible ac to take, whi is the one that is going to maximize my expec rew.

  

So I am che, I can play my pieces in a 100 different w which is the key move that will make me win the game in the end.

  

I can play the game in my head and see over play all the possible games until the end and's like the one that will give us that will maximize my reward.

  

If we know expected, can be optain by maxima by can be used to maximize to maximi reward.

  

And if we know the how to maximize the rever, th If we know how to estimate expec reard, then we can the aczioni that corrispond to maximum of.

  

So what the learning of the policy by the agent.

  

So let's see example.

  

In these example, we have start we have a small a simpleze.

  

We want have a starting point, which is here.

  

And we want to solve our goal.

  

In this case the agent can essentially follow differents, one which actually leads to goal and one which leads to the Aach step the agent has certain action can take an action, whichch is decided by by these euro.

  

And in each state, which is each possible position that the agent can find itself, we have one action that we can take, which will maximize our reward.

  

If we assumed that the reward is minus one for each step that we take, the expected value for e state will be simply the number steps that sepa the position from from.

  

This is a common of reward for locomotion .

  

We want our agent to reach the goal in the lower number of steps possible.

  

So we give a penal for e step taken.

  

And will agent to find resution in the smaller number of steps.

  

Overwise it will may wonder for a long time before rechi before reaching the goal.

  

And notice that in this case, when we take a step, we eliminate some of the possible some of the possible state.

  

For esempioample, if we are here and we decide to go up, we actually restri o possible il resto of the state that can reached from questa position. Small.

  

So if we take this step here, we don't need to evalte possible all possible states but onlyver once that a riach once we move here.

  

So, before we move on, I want to take half or 20 minuti maybe.ma group activity. Think this is the most important thing that we will take home from today is to think about how to design this spaces.

  

So I have possible problem. One is a chess game in a chess game or anyboard game, anyboard game, think The second one is the controll in a robot arm and this is something that we havey seen.

  

And the is in LLM from from human feedback. We need to decide which could be potally the state space, the action space with transition model and funtion for each of problem.

  

I a to divide to dividere in the gro I t that for people per group.

  

And ech group will take one of the problem and we'll try to find one po one or possible more than one potenential solution because for each of the problem t are many ways that we could tack all the state space e action space and the transition model and very world function.

  

So Resume recording So we have free of how to design state space, the action space, transition model and very funtion for different potenti problem in rain for lening.

  

Now we need to how to a train this policy.

  

Before going to the detas of the rain for algorit, let introduce the formulation Rain force for learning is Generally base on the problem is called multim bandit.

  

The multim bandit comes from the casinos.

  

There's a type of slot machine which is usally call the oneR vendit . Multit is essentially can be imagine as a replica of the slot machine, which has many arms.

  

And ech arm can do can have do a different action.

  

If you have a possibilità a set of possible actions, you will also have a distribution of probability distribution that will give re accumula reward associated with each action.

  

And e step you sele one of those actions and you e arm will select one of those action and will optain a different reward and you can simulate multiple arms in para and ober different reard.

  

And the goal is to maximize the cumulative reward and we do by in policy, which is a distribution on the all possi actions that will estimate the next the next action, base on the expected reward.

  

The action the expe for an action is called the action value.

  

So is that action The reward that will generate that base on the expected reward that we assumed to achieve in the future it we exmated if we do that action.

  

This can be simply observed by gine all the word up to a sme T and then or by ab incrementa.

  

So we have op have to different options.pend come decide to implementa.

  

The opmal value is the one that maximizes the value across all possible actions.

  

So which we can also refras very. Very is the optima vales.

  

Il great of action is theerence between the the optima value and the estimate the expeted reward for action.

  

How if we choose that action, how much we lose with the respect optimal would be?

  

If we take thepma action, val zero.

  

And we want to op, we want to do is to minimire. Minimi ma because that's how casting incent work.

  

So normay will always formulate our losses we inms of regret.

  

So far we haven't seen how connext with len network.

  

The connection is base of effect that all the compon that we have are poy functions.

  

The most important is the policy.

  

So how we amate gi the cut state the probabili next action to be comp . We could also think of the very function how we estimate the value of the curent state We can also the function which epsima which updates the statu, the state base on the corrent obervation.

  

And we can also have a function which models how the state will evolve or model very word that we observe given a state.

  

All of the are functions and i most for we can decide to We can design a table which Maps each state to the value of each of this function.

  

If we have aged and environment, if go back to example, in these example, the number of state is is finitate and it's also small.

  

So poy we can simply have a table a tablar grid in which we map the which we decide what happens for in a given state.

  

So we can simply estimate the next action for each state.

  

And the number of state is small number of potential actions is small.

  

We can simply us a look up function in order to map the state to thec. Action.

  

And this is the way that we could implement agent.

  

Fort, this is not very very easy to do if the number of possible is high.

  

So it explo very.

  

If the number of state is very hi, we can do we can approximate, so we can use depl network to learn one or more of queste stions.

  

Depend of the functions that we learn, we can have different type of different type of agens.

  

We can have agents that usually learn policy and the o elements are hcoded orterministic.

  

We can learn agent that we can frame the learning problem as estimating the value function using in neural network or both, so example, we can in the ac critic as we will see framework, we haw one network which esmate value one network which exmate.cy.

  

And in some type of model formulations, we will also learn a model of of the environt.

  

So are called mod base.

  

Sopend on w we have network which which learch of compon, we will have the different type of different type of agens, model free, s model base, policy base value base.

  

And can even have that combine to rum of the component.

  

Why combine different moderent component?

  

Dipend on what we want to do, i depend on a whole complex the problem is that we want to solve.

  

The problem that we want to sol can be different. Are fondamental problem the can salve.

  

One is learning one is panning.

  

In learning, we assume that the environment is known and the agents interaxt with the environment somehow to learn how the environment works In cases, in the avvertipe of fondamental problem, we have a model of the environment, the model can be given. Can be simulation base for example or can be lear .

  

And the agent plans in the environment without any type of exonel interaction.

  

This is calle the panning problem.

  

It can also be called the reasoning problem, the thought problem, the search problem are all different terms that eventually leads to same fondamental iss which is or searching for a solution.

  

So today we will understand will first how can we formulate la policy?

  

And come we can lear la policy.

  

With respect to poli, we have due fondamental problems. Is estima the value of expeted value of the actions.

  

So suppose that we have a way to estimate the exped value of of gi action.

  

And the expecd value will be the avrage reward that we observe. Base on all possible futures of action. Suppose that giv moment I decide to eat one of the pieces in a chest game. Will lead to possible different evolutions of the games in some of the evolutions I will win in some of these evolutions I will lose.

  

If on ege I win more than I lose then the expected value of of the particolar action will increase. Are are in some cases some actions that will have a very expec value which is well known.

  

So we know for example in this case that the action A1 has un exped value which is centrad around one bit hier than zero.

  

So we know that the action has not very hicted value, but we ale bit with certain with qui high level of certain that expeted value of that action will be high than zero.

  

Then we have actich a for which at the momentoon't really know what weill happen if we take it.

  

It is possible that will have a very hive value, but it is also possible that will have a very lo value.

  

And ts is as is the explotation or or exploration lemma that we were talking about.

  

So which action choosepon we want to maximi the excted reward or we want to learn more about the environment and maybe learn new expected value for upte o expected value for action free so that we can know with more certain ever this is a good action or not.

  

And the poli polipica a lear function, so in most of the case that we will see the policy is prodict by neural network.

  

Qu poli can change over time, but I need to one of the acti agen need to perfor ac, so we need to pi action from bason policy.

  

So the first problem that we need to salve is how we go from the policy that we have so far to action.

  

And to do this we can We can strate. The most is to pick the the action with the highest exped.

  

So in this case w A1.

  

And we chose it with a certain probability or overwise we choose action.

  

Ually the cut of the probability of choosing a random action is hier in the begining because we still need to explore still need to len our policy function and it the case over time. The end when the policy function becomes better then we chore a with hi most of cases.

  

The adtage of of of the type of behavior is that is sile, very easy to do.

  

But it was a lost of time on k actions because in the beginning it uniformi .

  

So there are tpe of ope of choices that we can use.

  

One is UCB or oper conference bound, whi is also called Optimising the face of un , which modifice the function by whichend on the number of times and action has been selected.

  

So NT records the number of times that an action has been selected in the past.

  

Where as Q is the action preference which is in our case the hot of network.

  

In this case, In these type of policy application, we don't simply choose the maximum the maximum of the action which gives the maximum preference, but we ten to prefer also actions that we haven't use a lot in the past in order to to maximile way explore less visit ad actions which we have seen the past and maximize what we can learn about the environment.

  

And questa factor will control the exploration vers exptation.

  

So if we have if we use a val of C potenti zero, we are exploting w wel.rey know.

  

And if we use a high value, we are exp more.

  

But we don't exply, we explore the actions we haven visited in the past and which we don't have a lot of information.

  

The possibilità is to use softma, so if we have a network that produces a preference core tranformate in probability us us a softma and we parameter to that we need to tune in order to decide to scale, they come to decide how much confidence we want to put in the valus with the higher preference.

  

And this is very simir to what we do to control control the variability of siamply in lar language model.

  

So we find use a tempature to to balanceance between termin output which is base on on the hi probability words or hi probability token and more exploration ping which we ma sempreso in which we may alsole la probability token.s this is.

  

A high exploration willpica better longn policy because we explore also the the actionons that are simiy nother good option in the corrent moment, but we'll lead to high reward later on.

  

But we'll take much longer to converge.

  

We a lo exploration tpiically we lead to faster congence, but may get stuck in local minimo. Policy will determina weample for the policy, but we need to learn the policy. To learn the policy, we can choose different strategies.

  

If we have in the case of tabla rainforce learning in which the policy function preference functu actually look up.

  

We can use these formula are called Q learning or salsa.

  

Q learning is sod of policy of policy function.

  

In these case the we assumed that they always take the best next action, even if the agent will not take it in reality.

  

And simplifi the learning process because we can always assume that when we transition When we transition to the next stage, the agent will alws take the action with high probability.

  

So it silifi our transition from one state of the other.

  

In the other case which is called on policy when we make the transition, we actually take into account the transition the policy that the agent we actually follow.

  

It will also take it to account to that dosiony the agent will start to explore environment and take bad decisions.

  

And we update the preference model in a more complicated way base on on the action actually taken.

  

This will usually lead to a more conservative policy in which in which the agen gets a penaalty if it takes rischi actions.

  

This is not so easy to aeve if we standard learning policy e standard learning procedure.

  

We will not use the recly alrim because we will not use tabula tabula rainforce learning.

  

But we will actually use a version which is called thein force lening in which these preference preference network the preference vales a approximated with anl network.

  

So we need a way to connect very word, wde e dicent e lost that we can use fort dicent in order to update the Preference of the of our agent.

  

Eventually, ater at the end of training preference preference network will be used to policy, bas bas the semplice strategie that we decide.

  

So we can use for a tempamply, and thege and will always like the most action or we can use for example tempature scaling to allow the agent to go off script a time. To learn to apply rain for learning what we usually we use some form a lost that is that could be for a temple smove lost h lost between the preference a time Tlus one which is also represented by by this s hero and the prefce a time T. Use to networks e target network which is uplated every few steps in order to sample our curt preference.

  

This is use to subilized training because we don't update the Q network at each step in order to make a train little bit stable. Use network previous network to estimate the difference between the cu The preference at the pri step, the preference at the curent time step and we use to the technique that reduce the temporale difference in or learn our agent.

  

Why this is works requi a lot of ftico result that we are not going to see?

  

E chi element is that of the tech is requi experience to play buffer.

  

So we need to store in a buffer transition from one state to the o so we need to record the series of episodi in which the agent transition from one state of the e and from the from the buffer random miniches to train to train. Ogni transition can reuse multiple times perchéuse we don't necessa to take in account the temporale correlation between all samples.

  

This is one possibility that can use and function that the here is essally a difference softicated version version of the of the difference which has better proti The problem of the very which calle len is that i requi computing the RM.

  

So computing the macross all possible all possible actions in order to estimate queste difference. Which is inble if the space is very larger.

  

So the alg we use to to the family forlar belongs to a family which calle policy and optimization with optimies the pareters of the police wout estima the action taking by the cri.

  

Pergri fall unders Umbrella the first one was for algori most recent once are for example policy optimization, which is called PPO.

  

And this is very one of the alg that is avalable in agen.

  

So this is one of the alg that you can inside M agens.

  

All of these algorims are base on the obervation that you compiute the gradient with respecly waits of the loss by estimating the expected value under the the police the expected value of all possible policees all possible vales of of agredient of of quantity, which is the moltiplication between the preference estimated under the policy. Under specifica policy and the agent of the lope of the policy, which is why calle policy agredient optimization because them hereent the thet of the policy which is estimated by theural networkself.

  

So the alrit in the form winforce l' algo is very sile. Un episodio from time zero to For e time you compiuto the estima reward. The total reward point, which sub fir parte the formula Q .

  

And th you up the the wales of your neural network by etern which is the gt of of the policy. With the respect of cor val of the w multip or risle by commmulative reward.

  

And this will increase the way of good actions and decrease the way of good actions that to not lead to high reward.

  

This is formulation as the number of problems in terms of congence.

  

So you will use more softicated vari, vaant which is PPO, but at the of the al is this.

  

So you have the episode the training episode is si simulation of the. Agens of the agent with the cut policy, inside the environment for time for give in time duration . In the simulation you the all the reard that are generated by the environment and us to estimate the total reward.

  

Over time to reward the the e in the to reard s in.

  

And then you repeat and until you reach a convolgence.

  

So in the type of type of architecture, we only estimate the policy.

  

So the every is scrip.

  

So is the reward is a function that must be scripted by the designer who will provide provide the reward for the which agent is presente.

  

So per esempio, if agent to the game, the that obser will be the the total reward accumulate during the episode, which will reflect during the episode the agent a one or or lost the game.

  

And any other intermediate intermedia rewards that the agent has accumulated bas the way that the agent has salved begame.

  

Maybe you get additional penaties for havingour pieces e and that will resting the accumulated accumulated reward.

  

In the actor critica architecture, which is the ape of architecture, the ape of learning algorit which is present in.

  

You are atually to networks to train.

  

One is the actor, the actor lear the policy function.

  

The policy function is function of the state, which receve by the environment and produce in action, which is on the bas of which the environmenta upted.

  

And then we have a critica.

  

A critic will learn value function, the value function depend on the state and will determin the reward.

  

And the idea is to train base on the difference function and value funtion. Policy function miror value funtion in or to produce acti that lead to good to good re.

  

In questo case, the actor lears the the poli function which controls what the agen And the parameters are simply abdated via the policyredit.

  

So simplyredients of the output, the lom of the output of the policy function, risca by the function the value, which the actor gets from the environment. And critica the termine learn the vio function which is the function of the states.

  

And it has a different set of parameters, so are due different networks. Is the actor and the is a critica.

  

And in this case, the critica what the by estima the parameters, base on temposi.

  

So the goal is to learn stable value for the value function and minimize the difference that you have a different a different time in.

  

There are also o vari of the actor critic, one of the vari is scho so cald soft actor critic, in which we a reward with antur.

  

The idea again is to promote exploration.

  

So the agen, the maxizing the entropy means maximizing the varie vari of actions that the agent that agent choses.

  

So I di any term will encorage the agent to be as random possible in the prodictions, while still collecting reward.

  

So help the agent understand what rewards is associated with different actions. Which might be diffict to to learn is the action, if the agent al always choses the best local action. Or learnly on in training that certain actions are beneficia.

  

If we don't enge the actor to explore, o state, the actor may converge to set acti, which it alady knows the are good.

  

A critic is normally an on policy and non policy trainer, but it can be made of policy, buy using i rep buffer. Which is efficient but essentially learns only from all the experience, on policy action, on policy training can use is more difficult is more it takes more time, so it more more reces.

  

O policy is is faster, so but i sometimes not converge to go. Solution.

  

One thing that we need to be aware of is that the combination of pull strapping, choosing the action, the combination of using a function approssimation to to predict thect the next action of policy learning in which the learn process a taking to account the ac policy and they actu way in in which the agent chooses the ex action can lead togence.gence the the actual what happens is that the very great explode.

  

So the agent is not able to learn.

  

This the deadly trid, so the combination of technic, which make learning much more efficient, much faster may lead to lost function essentially to explode.

  

In practice the urgen teorilly e possibility. Is really what happs in practice?

  

Reall happens usually in practice is that the training is unstable and depend all the configuration.

  

It might be thaty increases and then start to converge.

  

So that can happen and you have to be I'm just showing this not because I'm interess in to teoritical properties of lening, but because you need to be aware of efft that.

  

The reward that you will be money induuring training can have very very strange very strange functions.

  

So Actor critic is a form of model free rainforcement learning.

  

We assume that we have an environment that he hardcoded and the actor and the critic learn and interact with with this environment.

  

There are also forms of rain force leing when we introduce a fi element, which is the model.

  

The model is essentially furl network which exmate fornil network or even exter component that exmate the state that gives you a model of the of the tornal environment.

  

In model base rainforce and learning, the actor is learning from experience using model of the world.

  

The value function determin the the action, soc from experience and you learn varie function that will determina the best actions.

  

And then you use the model to base on panning to learn to estimate of your value function.

  

One possibility, we will not see examples of the model base rain form learning, but it's need to know that they exist. One possibility is dreamer.

  

Dreamer learn a late and model of the world and entily using sort of imagination to estimate the environment will evolve.

  

In tipe of model base rainfor lening, Alpha Zero be very famous for lening the furg a human in. And before that for the best performing model in chess.

  

In this case the model is a perfect model of the game.

  

And the panner is Monte Carlo Simulation that estima all possible all possible val dipend on state. In questo caso, exn model is a simbolico e simboli standard panner which is sething that you haven't because I don't even if you have done artificial intelligence course politecnico, we don't teach symbolic artificial intelligence anymore, but is a good fashionate panner and ts can be also as an extonal compon.

  

In order tomulate the val to estimate the value function not in network, mahonal compon t actually estimate the possible way to sol the game base on the corn state.

  

We will not see model base infortone in detail and most of the experiment that we will do you can use the very combination of PPO or soft actor critic. Which t type of algreen that are implementad in agent andday you will g.

  

That said, rain force and learning the problem will never almost never be mofi learn algorit. Will use lear in algorim that are read avalable like PP or SC.

  

The problem will be how to engineer very word.

  

So this is something very very diffiult to do for problems.

  

The first one is that in many case very is very sparse.

  

So if for ex esempio, you play a game again someone ast a human player or ain , get i w the game.

  

If you don't win the game until you win the game, so until Rich end of episodio, it's pro not so easy to understand how to give a world.

  

You plan an agent for locomotion Normay what you do is you give a high reward if you riget.

  

Which kind of reward you giving to the agent until the agent re is the target?

  

It's very diult to understand how to do it.

  

Of do is we give small penty for time.

  

This will incorage of the agent to move because stay still will incore in penalty.

  

But then we have toms to balance. One term that inges the agent to move and one tom that inges the agent when the agent reaches the target. Duewoms the abol value of the to terms is usually not very important what is important relative. Spent of the due terms.

  

And if we don't engine cly, it may lead to be are subtima or different what we intende.

  

For esempiole, in many cas, if we give a lot of very for mista, it may happ that the agent learn that do nothing is a a best choice.

  

Because the solving the gal is so far away in time and the for making mistakes are so high that is better to give up and stay still.

  

This is of course and and consequence of the way that we engineer reward.

  

But we don't formulate the final goal.

  

In supervise machine learning the formulation of the is actupend on the error that we want to minimi.

  

H we giving reard we need to rese engineer the rews that give the to beha.

  

And is very hard to do and may lead to agent that do things we dot expect.

  

Maybe they take shts that shouldn't be possible because we did't engineer a pty for taking the torkcut.

  

Or on the, if we give reard for solutions, for esempio, if we give reard forgetti closer to the target, the agen may learn that circ around the target is better actually reate because keep a rewards by going around the target ra thanly reach the target and still.

  

So given difficulty and Qu due difficti are by dipendent the reward in in rainforce Melone is extrise.

  

What do we wy extri reward?

  

This is something that you experience in your life a it actually, student the way we formulate the learning process in universities, for example in Itali university is very exsive even. Very to exprisive il re because we give your at the end.

  

And lot of what you do is base on what you can do to maxi to maxi the can give ris This will shape the way you learn in a way.

  

Intrinse reards are ards that the agent gives gives to elf.

  

They simulate the ruolo of curiosity.

  

In many cases, if expris, balance in expri and intrinse res are very very diult.

  

For esempioample, if we decide to give f we propose a lab and we decide to a sign, small bon point to lab.

  

This is ann re.trinard is motiva to do Even if wen't give an ex point for the libicself.

  

And that is something that we need to balance.

  

Curiosity, so we need to introduce curiosity inside the learning process and ts that we need to buil the reward function that is intrin agent. Is independent of the exona of very world function that the agent receives from the environment.

  

And can be by the agen itself by simply interacting with simply on the observavations. The curiosi the intrin o curiosity function must be bas only on the observations without consider very ward.

  

There arey possibilitàties for the sake of time we see only one.

  

And one possibility is to implement curiosity as a forma di explorazione by predic state .

  

The agent will obser observe the environment, base on the environment base on the environment on the observation will try to prodict and will prediction error.

  

The prodition error is the reward or vice the prodiction error will be very A high prodiction error will to prediction in ts case prediction errori is in secret world. High prodiction error means that the agent is in scenario, which it cant prodict base on the cor state.

  

So whenever the agent in inconters something new, it will sorry need. Go back to restar the simulation.

  

Whenever the agent predics sees something new that it cannot predict, the intristic reward will spike.

  

And the reward wil spike will have a very high spike when the agent reches a new level in this case.

  

Because the enters e blanks something new that that it hasn't seen before and can not really predict.

  

So in this case In this case the in tre secre reward will be Help will rainforce the exm reward which might be very far away because the explain reward sold in the entire.

  

If I have an agen mov in un enviment, the prediction error will be hi when the agent mo or new part the enviment. Agent is motivad by us intri to move to new part of of the environment. Can lead to has beend the nois TV problem.

  

Nois TV was introduce in a paper publishing 2008 And they formulated the ipotesies that inside in environment we have o In O TV will simply show random that are not correlated to each other.

  

Since the are random, if we do this ny, the agent will not be able to predict the next scene because the are totay unlated. When the agen counters, the TV, will get a very a very high reward because the The prediction erro will stay high and we'll always high because what the agen is always new.

  

Now if these paper was publisd in and of 28 insted doveisT you probably have Instagram scrow.

  

You scroll, you always get something you.

  

So you the more is scrall the more you get a reward which in the case of your brain is a hate of the substant which is cald dopin. W spik in your brain.

  

And dopoamini is link to nobility.

  

So our prains, spikes, dopamin when our opening spikes when we inconter something new and new stitions will spike dopamin and scralling will get you the type of of intran sec reward.

  

So To these we can thll use curiosity, but there have been new ways of implementing curiosity that try to reward agents for seeking truly overrios.

  

So areas where the parte of the environment is, quindi it's from w agentene, but it still prodictable.

  

And don't play the the effect of part the environment which are intrinsey not prodictable because they are randomc.

  

Again, this is inver example in which crafting reward sign, lead to aninded consequencees.

  

Because helps exploreze by moving to area that were priusy.

  

But if you do itai , it can create agent that get stuck.

  

So in ts case the agens get stuck in front a TV and instead of all very problem becom the coutato and sit with bag of chips in front of BT all day.

  

Because the reward is crafted in a way that be becomes more enjoble, more than actually reaching the .

  

This is why paralos why why some people think that rain force the learning is actually better much better metaphora of human learning than th then standard supervis learning because the interaction we learn by interac and we get rewards that are incorded by the our brain circu tree and our dop systems in order to sick pleasure in avoid pain. In this case the agent are doing the same things the sicking reards thereing pleasure and they t to minimize pain.

  

Not necessaly I in pain we lead youded result. Always.

  

So the cases in which you need to se pain.

  

Tempora in order to move to final result.

  

So, in the lab you will experiment with different of craf in very word and crafting the obervation and see w.

  

How does will experiment with very small, very simple environment which is already avalable fromly from agens.

  

And you will be able to see in the 3D environment in unity, how the agent that you have be, how it moves around after train and see what happens if you change not necessass the alg because you will some of the algorives. But what happens if you change were parameters, what happen if you if you use curiosity, if you don't use it, what happens if you If you change the network, change the capacity of the network that predi, if you use the better network, that gives a better approximation of policy can you oin better agent of.

  

That said, today, since I wanted to finish with early, so I didn't take also did something. Will be more in tactive, so I wis kip the break.

  

I have kid to break, but I will finish with early.

  

I just wanted to briefly introduce the other possibility that we have which is tily related to rainforce learning, but it's not exactly the same, which is learning from demostration.

  

What do we mean by learning from demostration?

  

Suppose that you have you want to train your robot arm to reach an object.

  

You can craft a simulator in which simulate robot are beha.

  

You simulate phycs of a system. Appward base on the distan between the object and Actuato of the robot arm.

  

And you eventually and then you train the do a lot of episodi in need to w move around the obt because want to network to be not over fit to position of speci object, so y move around the object, cange the shap of the object and eventualmente the network to follow the target.

  

Alternativa, show il robot arm a video of the person picking up the object. Or you could use a robot arm that you have, you could move it manually and the position his demtion and s to do the problem.

  

If you have the detions, yould princip lear lew lead to over because you only show ation. That's not only the only possibleay to be up the object.

  

And you also wou need to train a demostration for all possible positions of the object, which is which would be extremly costi.

  

In imitation learning what we want to do is still lear policy, quindi we not standard super le perché were not lening direc position of the not predi dire position of the j le policy which gi state predixtion. The next optima position in order to rech our target. The reard funtion in of by engine . Is from expert simulation.

  

So the expert simulations the export de and base on the distance from the ex dem, y atic reward.

  

There are many of the si way is be.

  

Beha is simp super lening, base on state action.

  

So a combination state action and simply learn transition from state to action, us supervis learning.

  

Beha cloni is verybus, it le to over fitting, but it can be use to initize.

  

It can use to initize e standard rain force le.

  

For you can usare acti like inse rainforce learning, which recover explicity world function from detions or ope of of rid.

  

One of the most and one of the most use for which is al alable in unity is gale, which stand for generative, adversari imitation le.

  

It is a combination of rain for learning and g generativa avversari networks. In which discriminator is to differende between experort detions. Esempio, I imagine that a network to play Pac- So we will have screenshots from ex demostrations and screenshots from from in agent playing the game.

  

And our proly sequence, of course, I'm reenti only one state, but we proly have sequences because the agent will.ed to record in aeroplane from the begining to the end.

  

And the discriminator will try to separate verycord the traces from the export demtion. From the traces generated by our policy.

  

In questo case the generatori genera la policy, t is difft from under perché ilder will to generare direc. The generator traina model is the policy network From the poli generation we will need to maap the corrisponding actions to the to the environment in generate the that the discriminator will to differen.

  

And the discriminatore in questo case will provide very.

  

So is a forma di imi è generativo, quindi the network it will be more over because learn a potenzia policy network.

  

This is an example. Examplew years ago, was publis in so's very new. Paper in which the goal is to try learn locomotion base on motion capture data.

  

So This is a problem in computer animation, you have an agent and which has certain number of jo and you want to estimate want to produce joint to move the jo in a way that is realistic in order to animate your character from one position to.

  

And in this case the chre has what is calceptive observation, so the ch kno position of it ojo and position to predict the next actions.

  

Since moving a character is very complicated.

  

In this case the a decided to splat the problem is to learn the low level w levelw level behavior. Ex, turn walk and the network the high level task move. Or circont e op.

  

But here we interested in learning the law level observation.

  

So one possibili is to learn by rand inshing the policy.d our network and simply use Imitation learning using.

  

So in both of the casuse imitation learning framework, starting from motion capture data.

  

But they t differen scenari in ze network rand And in questo case Gule is use to can be use to learn the walking meccanism, but given the randomcization the walking meanism is that is learned by the actor isbit by the chara is strange.

  

You see the sideway that is a natural. We don't work.

  

We don't walk sideways, we walk dey we walk from frontly.

  

The second the second role the casing which the actor is inized.

  

In bove of the cases, what we seen is the stage of train when the charac still doesn't kno how to w very well.

  

But can see that we behal cloneing even in the stages of training, the motion is way more realistic because The network has beenze to regress the emotional of the individuals that were presenti betraining set.

  

If you have time, you can can watch the interred video.

  

It's not very long.

  

So you can see for example that the network has the hmwing to swing the arms. Sinc away that sincronize with the pace.

  

So in this case, they the imitation is from drunk, someone who is walking like here she is drunk or intipe of other style.

  

And the imitation imitation process can be apply to a a single acquisition.

  

So not is that in this case mi go back prima slide.

  

In this case, craf reward sinal be complicate could give the agent a reward for falling.

  

You could give an agent a reward for arriving to end the end of from one side to the o side.

  

But it's not easy to crafter reward for for walking in away that feel natural to us.

  

How do you craft a reward to incod the style of walking?

  

At the same time, i f youf you regre if you learn to predict the motion, us standard supervis learning.

  

I becom very diult to includere a tpe of reward like fall, but you also need a very large set of molto cap data.

  

In this way can if you learn policy, you can optain better beha by reducing the number of training point, su.

  

And potentially, you could even find da samples. And still include pties for example for fall w cant be direc which can not be combine direct in more difficult to combine direcly in non rainforce and learning days appro. We will see.

  

So I think that for today we can call it today are since we essentially lost one class.

  

I will upload an extra video because between may first and the other classes that we misse.

  

I will have topload one I will have to upload one video to make up for one of electors that we will not be able to. Do.

  

One part of the video will be dedicated to different representations that we can use for repres in tridimensional data includ how and code animation data.

  

So this is of cse This is very nice, but how do we in code the joint for example?

  

This is something that we haven seen.

  

And we I will provide with an adtional a small leture to feel in this gap, so how can we resent this of data . How we will learn to manipolate is de inforce learning.

  

And these closes the gap between The limited number of the mostration of the cost of a acquare dimostration, using motion capture or o typle of technices.

  

They are also type of rain force. Lening has also be in applide to learning from demostration, from video demostration.

  

This is more complicated because the video dimensional is a to dimensional repre. Where a emotion capture will provide with a free dimensional position of the joint. Butt also can be done.

  

And per esempioample, i can be used to learn complex behav for which.

  

It is hard to have a lot of demostration.

  

So for example, if to a want to wal, it ey to a lot of dimostrati perché ever can.

  

If want to learn to do the animation for a triple axel in figurekating, there only if you hands of people in the world che can do it.

  

So it's going to be hard to acquare using capture, so you can there is also possible to do it starting from video and then regre to a freedimensi to a freedimensional space.

  

That said, I think it's all for now and have fun in the lab with with legens and training own agens in in free. 

  

  

La trascrizione è stata [utile](applenotes://transcriptionFeedback?isPositive=1&attachmentID=C82BBB4E-38D5-4147-9122-058E366BBCE2) o [inutile](applenotes://transcriptionFeedback?isPositive=0&attachmentID=C82BBB4E-38D5-4147-9122-058E366BBCE2)?