
---
## Transcript


Good morn, in this video we will see some points in. Information t will need usegens in your lad and homeworks and in your project.

  

Forse of all, let start by say thatgen is in open force toolkit, which was for reas by Uni technogies in It was one of the first attend to make a production gaming engine in the first class environment for train dipin force agent.

  

M agens has underwent several majorons. It is currently in majorons number f and has gone a lot of changes across different different versions.

  

Early were very. At the momeng can a relati maturo and well documentad but also adoted bt in Ademy.c rese channing game studios.

  

Been in open sour toolkit, the community has also contributed the lar library of example environment.

  

From simple borolli in task like the one day will see today to multi agent soccer games and cooperative or competitive andorronments with multiple agent.

  

Before runningfore in this video, it would be beneficial if you have installatod unity and the setup instructions that were provided in separate violent separate video .

  

Now, let's understand how work, because understanding the mental model will say you lot of time in the buging and implementing later.

  

MLs, plet responsibility across two languages and two processes.

  

On the unide which is dritten in Si Sharp, we have a len in environment.

  

On the python side we have a trainer or brain, whi is theural network, which provide the policy, implement the policy, but also the train in al .

  

This communica with us a proto which is called Gearchy.

  

The unity environment include free key components.

  

The agent is a mono script that touches to any game oject.

  

It is able for colletti obervations about a word, rece actions from the policy and computing reard.

  

Ever frame in the simulation, the agent is collec data that sent to Python or receive un action prom Python ex during training. We will see that the agent can use a loy cash model, so will not use Python any.

  

But for train proposies we have back for communication.

  

The policy glass that is an obstruction decision making logict from the agent self.

  

So you can use the same policy multiple agent and this can use to speed up training.

  

As as implementi multi agentri .

  

How la policy makes decision depend dei beha parmeters that are associated the agent.

  

If the agenent has a model file, its policy will use the network that is saved inside the model fileself to take decisions.

  

The behavor is a configuration object that is sk to the agent and link to a partilar policy.

  

It's specifi the shape of observation space the shape of action space and the name of beha that is the unity environment to the Python training.

  

The environment is just the seeel. Notqui any special instructure, but it retains special obe which is called Academy.

  

Academy is a single tone that used to be a me component in order version in oder versions ofg.

  

Now it is still retain.

  

It is used to manag eets and environment parameters that can use to implement more advanced strategies that you will see the lab.

  

At training time the agent will requite cooperation with the Python environment at inference mode. Unity incllude an inference engine which is cald.

  

The train model is exported to a format which is called ONNX, which is a standard format which use to exchange neura networks train networks model across a different platforms.

  

So it is inpendent of tensoflow and pitor.

  

The models is excted inside the inference engine, so can use run entirely inside unity at fol gamesed without requim in ex communication which slow so things consider .

  

It is also possible to def any huristics modern, which is used to maap the actual that are normally produced by the policy to the keyword or controller input.

  

So that the same actor can be controd AI by the trade AI agent or by a human player using the controller.

  

This can for testing to test that you have imple agent correct.

  

Ora in multiplayer,vironment to mix player and play player human players with no playing chc.

  

Now, let's have a lookok at how the agent can be implementad.

  

For of all, an agent needs to perceve the envied to perceive reward.

  

And for you havee possible meccanis in .

  

The first is the vecture observation. Which is a fix size of ray of float that are populated in manuy in the collect observation meho.

  

By manuy it doesn't necessy mean that is man input in but that the vecto is populated is the way that thecto populated is decid by the human designer.

  

So decide inde disc. The agen position, targets, relative position, curent veloci. Whate isful for the task and can be opta from scene from the unity properti .

  

Thi tipe of obervations are the chi optain news so the are.

  

The second way is to use visual obervations in this case we touch a camera to the agent and the agens captures the rendered image and as a pixel tens to a convolution Union nwork.

  

This is more powerful in Eory, but it's also drammatically more expsive train.

  

So it is only when the task requi vision that can be c inctor or when need train policy that is th transfer to a real world for a tempole to robotic to a robot that has onboard camera sens.

  

I for option, which is in between the due is to use racasting.

  

So in this case, a ray percepture component is atta to the agent.

  

It a find of rais into the scen and takes what the what they raise hit for ale it can be a wall, it can be a goal, can be anenemy.

  

Along with the distance wn the objectself and the The object is hit by the way.

  

This is a middleground and gives special, geomet where observations without the cost of full visual input and can be use the using sensory interfa .

  

Depend on the type of observation you will have a different agen architec.

  

So if you use vector osservation, the agent architec will be multilayer percepron.

  

If you use visual obervation, the agent architec will need convolution network component, which it more difficult to train .

  

It is also possible to have memory of the agent in which in the re connect network is sud by network long short memory.

  

This is use for where the agent dot receive doesve the full environment ins observation, for ex i use a camera to implement memory meccanism that let the object remember where of if certain parts of the environment wereceved.

  

You don't have to implement the neural network itself in egs.

  

Eg will do it for you.

  

There will be a configuration file which will si later in which you can specifi network paramis for il the the number of laers or the size of the heit and regolate the number of parameters and the complexity of network.

  

The policy the output of the network, whi implement the policy is the termine action space.

  

Ac a can be acti integ or continuous actions floating point. For action you define branches and e branch will have a certain number of options For esempioample, in locomotion, you ma have branches one which determins forward or backward motion with free choices, move forward, move back.ard, sesti. One branch which controls rotation with free choices, rotate left, prote light, don't prote .

  

The agent will one per branch percep and this is tpicay approprite when you have a number of decision actions that you can take.

  

Contin actions are floating point vales, normalmente in range between minus one and Youf how many continuuous dimensions need for exle for locomotion you might have type of due floating point values, one betone controller, for feed and one de controls the turn.

  

La poli will output all vales at once.

  

It is also possible to mix match descritta intinuous actions in the same agen.

  

For example navigation task may actions for movement and discrete actions for a binary events like Jumping or fire in a weapon or something like that.

  

It is important to understand the trainer does not know what the actions means.

  

It is the agent through specifi functions that we map actions to transformation in the agent state in the enviment state are that implement the intended transitions associated with ith action.

  

And now we will see how to to configuri inside the unity inviment.

  

And among the the example projects avaible in legends are going going to use the free as an example.

  

In the free ball We have In agent e small agent represented by a square box with a ball on top.

  

It needs to keep the ball on top of the surface without letting the ball, fall as the agent moves along. Different dimensions.

  

You will see that in these environment we have multip agens, in partilar we have 12 agents.

  

This is a track that is a news to speed up training time, to have multiple replis of the agent within the environment exec.uting the same policy at once and then sw the.

  

But all the agens will have same property, so we're going to open the free agents.

  

The agent is attached to box to the box collider of the box has a position and scale.

  

And incular frase It is particolar interesting to see how parameters are def.

  

Dont if don't know in this short video, I'm human, that your familiare with unity and focus in on the as are specifi tog, but we will also provide. E pri for those of you in altri familiari with with tool ready.

  

You see that in theha parameters, we have the beha name the Free ball.

  

The spacezes e so this means that the agent will us a stackt vactor. With 8 obervations. The space osservationdepend on the implementation of the observation me which we will see in a minute.

  

The behav is chrize by due ac e zero descriches. T is an agent which has to actions .

  

And the model contains a pointer to the 3D train model in this case the Free model is a train model is already available under tens flow models TF models directory in 3D ball.

  

Overwise if you after you have train your own models, you could put them in the same directory and Dragon and drop the mo model to this property in orther to excute the modelself.

  

We will not see how to do training in bus short video, but you will do it during the lab.

  

Once you have train the model.

  

It's possible to executite by click non play.

  

Play will load the excusion domain and the inference engine.

  

And wter a continuo simulation in which the agent is automatilly moved by the by the inference in chi and continuusy excuting the policy.

  

E agent will start from a different randominationzation and so we'll providehi liy different will follow exactly different path and execution .

  

Also the polies will has an elemento stosticity, so the the actual action excted will be like a different for each agent.

  

Now, nor training alpe, now any a what the action valess me.

  

The training alrit will try different vales for the actust. Obs the effect on the accumulated rewards over time and many train e.

  

So the only place action are define for the agent is inside the action received function. Acti are apply to the agent and the environment and the wards are. Functions must be implementad when you design the agent and we will see when we will see an example for the agent.

  

Rewards acculate over the cse of un episodio, the a the reward function or set reward function.

  

If you use the reward function, you will use accumulating reward.

  

If you use the set reward function, you overde the corrent acculation and set the word to specifi value.

  

A the end of of the episode, wver the agent reach the goal, the agent fell or completely faid or hit maximum stet account.

  

The episode function is cold and an episodio functual will trigger e reset of the environment.

  

The most important decision when training e in agent is to define very word.

  

Emies not provide anype of reult it must be implementa in C shp.

  

The are smon pattern.

  

For esempioample, if you have movi agent e common pattern isgn large positive reward and goal e small negative reward ever step to speed and ay comple the task in speed men . Lar negative reward on fair conditions for example minus one if the agenes is falling or a c crahing.

  

The ext vales do not necessy matter al though typiically we to keep rewards in minus one and one But really matters is the rati.

  

The inve of one action of the a. The correct relative incent will drive the behavor that you expect.

  

In in correct reward sing no will may lead to agent taking scus and result in result in strange or natural behave.

  

There are three type of rewards avalable ing.

  

The first is generated by the environment which isng word.

  

The word must be impled by the designer.

  

There are also intrin type of reward for for example to implement curiosity, driv exploration.

  

And are not implementad but control the e configuration file as the are alrey implementad inside the imag fwork.

  

And we will see more informa It is also possible to define at the Academy level.

  

This is not for a sile environment, but for more complicated environment i can be use to implement advanced training savages like curriculum learning. Curriculum learning is essentially a way of training in agent by making the enviment more difficult across training interations.

  

So you start by training the agent in a simple configuration per esempioample, the path of the goal is an obd to incre complex in in complex environment in which a wall of strucks the to go in tample, and the agen lear how to jump sufficient play highder th to bypass the opsic.

  

In case of more complex environment curicing can really simpli training proce process, but in the example that we will see the lab, it will not be necessa to resort to the typle strategy.

  

So let in practice how the agent is implementad and can be customized.

  

We need to implement a number of functions by extending the base agent class.

  

In particolarelar of the me the follow metals must be impled.

  

Un episodio begin is call the begin of the episodio and sta the simulation.

  

Collect observation is called at every step the agent request decision and is the most the simp way to collect the agent observations of the environment.

  

The are more softicated alternatives which ind the use of sensor interfaces that will will not see in this video.

  

The connection received is called every time the agent receive in action to take.

  

So the agent request and action to the policy. It received an action and icte the me For of to met the action of the phical and environment a sed of all to assigner award. Ar inside the me action received.

  

In some cases for esempioample in the case of collisions they mi also be assign in arod that are associated with specific events unity such for example collisions.

  

You can also implemen the hlistic meto to generate the actions of the agent using for example nel board or controller.

  

And can be used to drive the agent without Not from a pretty network but from emanual controller and can be use in some cases.

  

To understand how to write stions we will see an example, I have use visual studio to open the fre the free project, which we have just scen unity.

  

And this is the extension of the class agent for there di agent.

  

Inside the collect observation meets the obervation vactories pop by includendo the transformation, the rotation of the game object, the .

  

The position of the ball relative to position of the object and the velocity of the b.

  

And this is the observation vector that will be given as input to neural network to whis policy.

  

When the game object receives in action, the on action receive metaldi is cold and the action received metod takes input the action buffer.

  

The action buffer present the parameters of the action.

  

In the case of the actions, they are the one hot and coding of the selec action. For e branch.

  

In the case of actions the action buffers will contain float vales in this case vales, continuous action zero etinus ac one.

  

The poli does know w is the phical of the vales.

  

The action received is responsible for apping flo vales the be of the agent.

  

In this case the game oject is transformed by rotati by appline to rotations along the ex and the ex in acceis.

  

Then the the position of the of the ball is comparered against the position of the of the object.

  

And the metodo decide the object, the ball is still within, the game obje fall in outside of the game object.

  

If the the ball has flen, then the is negative because the agent a fail it objective.

  

Overwise we a small positive, word which in actor to to keep moving and keep playing this game.

  

Finally the episo bin determin how the the episodi is inized, in particolare it science a random position to the game object. Is the the vst of to zero and it a sci a random position to ball rela, to position of the game object.

  

Andence the parameter parameters when the agent is recep.

  

So we have to have to implement the action in the So we have seen how to implement the agent and during the lab, you will try to modire ex in agent.

  

We now have to see how to train, how does it the piython side betrain inside works?

  

Emi Legends is the main train utility provided by Emigs.

  

And is a common lide ifa tool, whichcept number of options trough the common line.

  

There is also the possibility of running custom Python implementation of specific training algorims, using the plugin function. Which is still a version implementation, so it will may change in future releases, but we will not see how to do it.

  

So the Mgens file is takes input threein pareters.

  

The first one is a configuration which has is a y file.

  

So the extension is going to be YY mL.

  

It takes as input the environment name and a run ID which can be used in can be use to distinguislogs of different for the bug purposes.

  

We will see some example of configuration files, but I ancora to look at the entire at the documentation that is alable from unity to see all the options that are alable in the training configuration file . Are 4 type of alrim that are already alable inside the first one is PPO, which is the def algo.

  

It is an policy algo. Is sile in efficiente, but is also very peristable.

  

Alternativey we can there is also an implementation of soft a actor critic, which is police algo.

  

It is faster and has a building eny maximization objective, which can encorage exploration without need ind tune the en efficiente.

  

Uually is prefer for action space that is continued for a limited simulation budget or when PPO, platese you cannot improve the agent anymore.

  

Alternatially it is possible to use imitation learning through evergile or beha, but to soed to colle de which is al possible to do us built in demtion record.

  

So without human human demostrations, it is not possible to us alges related configurations will be simp ignor or not not used.

  

This is an example configuration file for our 3 di ble evironment.

  

You will see thre set of hy parameters.

  

The first one is the h parameters related to the The training algorims in this case PPO.

  

The second set of hypers type of neural network in questo case we using inural network with due las with hit.

  

So by En larg or reducing this number, you can reduce or en large the complexity of the network and number of meters.

  

La last parte della configurazione file reward.

  

In questo case using un expriwork with a discount factor of zero99 which is gamma and a st of one.

  

This strent allouse you to balance extrem and intrestic rewards.

  

The simulation will run for the maxim of000 steps with a time horizon of 64 And the The training processes loed depend on the sum frequence par meter.

  

Let take look at the specifi parami to the training algourin.

  

In his case we haveze, which is the number of experience in e up date.

  

Larger biches produce more stable gradiredients, padre Quire more memory.

  

The buffer size is how much experience you before you starting upla.

  

A larger buffer means more experience per update cyple and it is usy a multiple of the matchze.

  

The lear rate control the stepsize of in update, so a in standard supervis machine learning e to hi learning rate will lead to egen e to low learning rate will lead to very slow learning process.

  

The entrop coefficiente enges exploration by pinilizing overly confident action distributions orly in training.

  

It may help if the agent converges to early and if especially if it converges to subatima behavor. To incorage the actor to keep exploring during training.

  

The clip parameter is clipping is a clipping parameter which we haven't seening during class, but constrace how much policy can change in a single update.

  

It is a to graining clipping in overtipe of for example in generative models.

  

Lun is the generalize vanta estimation permeter. Trade between different type of estimate that can result in hi varice or to high bias. We meany varigh bias. Hi vari is the variance between different estimates a different time is great.

  

How bias is the instimated error inside each each great en update.

  

High bias will lead to high errors, but may conver earlier if the veri low a high with slower congons, but potally better better results.

  

During training the training process will save inside the results folder free artifects.

  

The first one is a sum file which can be loaded intens boorto to monitor the training process.

  

The second one is a file with ox extension which is the model checkpoint updated through training and at the end of the training you will have a final model file And then you also have aggregated ti statistics on the training process, which maybeuseful understand the training dynamic.

  

Train Emigens might is tpicay lower then training standard neur network.cause inside the train process you have communication for communication between the unity rende engine and the and the actual training cold.

  

So time proing can useful especia if the environment is very complix .

  

This is an example of the tens board vie.

  

Inside the tens board face see the learning rate, you will see the commty of reward and avvertipe of metrics, for exle the en depending on the type of alg on the type of train algrin using.

  

To conclude, there are also advance scenarius inms in which you have multiple interac with.

  

By multiple ag scenario, we mean scenari in which the train inpend not only on the sing agent interacting with the environment, but also dipend on the agent corpo or g in order solve environment for example, here you can see an example of for agents learning to play soccer. Very excming simplified version of the soccer game.

  

In this case, the agent is not only competing with the the environment, but the environment also includeversari. From the agent perspective, all the altri agens are part of the environment and must provide e feedback to the agent world of agent in order to implement the training policy.

  

So the agent in this case it is it plays to rollles.

  

One is agent tells and the other one is the adversay of the opponent.

  

There isason why we use the agent te as an adversario is that tipically we want the adversay to be equal in skill to the agent.

  

If the adversario is to strong or to week, the agent can not learn proably.

  

And in this case, by using the agent inuble role agent, will invo and improve over time along with the environmentself.

  

When we have multiple agent there may be differences between the train and blain phs.

  

For esempioample, if we want to train in agent to surve as an non plin character, during training, we made train all the characters in this case we have to. As as agent.

  

And the trainer will communicate with both agents and Wars to both agens norder to make them improve .

  

In the plane face, it is possible that some of the agens will be control by the inference environment.

  

This is typica living non playing character.

  

And the other agents will be controlled by the user itself by using the hhouristics.

  

So the uristic will map the actions wou normay be generated by the policy the inputs from the controller players.

  

Qu allo train without necess having human demostration. It is also possible to use human demostration to generative imitation learning or t beha al cloning to incorporati into the training process.

  

We will not see disa scenarios in the lab, but you can kep them a reference, maybe they will come in end in your projects or in your future exploration. 

  

  

La trascrizione è stata [utile](applenotes://transcriptionFeedback?isPositive=1&attachmentID=7436C977-B8BE-47BD-81ED-CA328A6C9B0E) o [inutile](applenotes://transcriptionFeedback?isPositive=0&attachmentID=7436C977-B8BE-47BD-81ED-CA328A6C9B0E)?